The Atlantis Ship
Carson Mach Adventures - Book 1

Chapter 1

The outer rim planet, Retsina, never ceased to amaze Ethan whenever he had to carry out repairs on Orbital Station Forty. A crusty frozen surface enveloped the dwarf planet. Black lines of dust deposits, left by erupting nitrogen geysers, streaked across its thick polar cap. One of the Quick Reaction Force satellites, situated outside the station’s hypervelocity shield, failed to authenticate the defensive drones on the planet’s surface. Images from the command center’s remote-controlled maintenance vehicle showed a small hole punctured in the transponder unit, which meant a manual repair. Space junk left over from the Century War, twenty standard years ago, littered the frontier section of the Commonwealth-controlled Salus Sphere, a twenty-light-year-wide sector of stars and planets. Debris from a destroyed ship was usually the likely candidate. Ethan maneuvered his hand-control unit and thrusted toward the top of the huge ring-shaped structure that housed two hundred crew. He floated past the solid dark gray walls of the habitation deck and hydroponic farm and grabbed the maintenance rail that led to the fifty-meter-wide communications platform. A small ship powered across space thousands of meters below; its fusion motors emitted a blue glow. Ethan’s magnetic boots connected with the platform and he used the power of his suit’s exo-legs to approach the damaged satellite. “Engineer Five in position,” he said through the helmet’s comm system. “Roger that,” replied a female voice from the communications deck. “Do you see any other damage?” A visual inspection of the solid black bases around the nine working high- and low-gain antennas revealed no other impact damage. The beam expander housing for the long-range comms had two dents and a black scuff, but they had been present since he started his posting on the station a year ago. “All looks good apart from Sat Two,” Ethan said. He crouched in front of its base and ran a gloved finger around the jagged hole. “Stand by for an assessment. Out.” He unclipped his bolt remover from his hip and placed it against the panel. On the newer stations, this could all be done from the inside, but all junior engineers were posted to the older stations on the frontier to serve their time. The war against the horans ended twenty years ago. Drones were only occasionally scrambled from Retsina. They shadowed ships that strayed into the area of dead space designated as the NCZ—non-combat zone—defined in a peace treaty between the two empires. A weak orange glow crept across the platform, brightening the antennas and base unit. Ethan clipped the tool back on his belt and turned to view the light source. Orange mist swirled in a huge circle about fifty klicks away from the station. Ethan’s heart rate spiked. “What the hell is that?” Static interference hissed through the comm speaker, masking the response. He switched to the command channel. “This is Engineer Five on the comms platform—” Frantic voices cut him off. They talked about a massive energy source and transmitted back to CW command on Fides Prime, asking for advice. A brilliant white light engulfed the center of the swirling mass. The orange mist extended out, forming a huge, roiling tunnel. Ethan squinted and turned away from the eye-piercing glare. He grabbed the maintenance rail and moved back down the station, wanting to get to safety, realizing this phenomenon was probably a wormhole; it certainly looked like one to him. But where the hell did it come from? Nobody in the Commonwealth or Axis Combine empires had harnessed wormhole technology. They were still considered spontaneous occurrences, but it seemed too convenient that this phenomenon had appeared next to the station. The bright light reflecting off the metallic walls of the habitation deck dulled to an orange glow. Ethan glanced over his shoulder. An impossibly large light-gray trapezium-shaped ship, with myriad cannons mounted on the top and both sides of its hull, had blocked out the light at the end of the tunnel. It was bigger than anything in the CW or Axis fleets, with the width at least the size of two destroyers. Could it be? He thought… could it be the… Atlantis Ship? But it was just a rumor, a myth from the Century War: a ship so powerful that it could appear and disappear at will, and take down the most powerful of destroyers, seemingly on a whim. No one knew if it was real or not, it had never been caught on camera. The only records were those from panicked captains and ensigns. A command center operator sent repeated messages asking for identification. Nobody responded and the ship proceeded through the tunnel. The captain ordered the weapons to lock on. The QRF (Quick Response Force) drones immediately scrambled from Retsina. “This is Engineer Five. I’m still—” Ethan said. Two blue bolts zipped from the top cannons of the approaching ship. Ethan gripped the rail and tensed. A second later, both energy bolts slammed into the side of the station. The structure shook violently, huge pieces of infrastructure splintering and spinning off into space. Ethan lost his grip and floated away from the station. He gasped at the pair of ten-meter-wide smoldering holes in the superstructure. Mangled debris surrounded him. His comms feed cut to silence. Cannons on either side of the attacking ship fired. Ethan thrust away, avoiding pieces of wreckage. Four blue bolts smashed the station, creating a blinding flash of light all around him, obscuring his vision. The comms platform had been reduced to a twisted mess. The command center took a direct hit and lights flickered off around the top half of the cylindrical station. The alien ship cruised out of the side of the orange tunnel and headed away. Its cannons swiveled on their turrets, maintaining aim. Ethan knew the damage was terminal and closed his eyes for a moment, thinking about the horror his colleagues must have suffered. They could’ve handled two hits away from the key infrastructure by shutting down the areas, but nothing like this. He let out a deep breath, activated his distress beacon, and checked the air supply readings on his HUD. His only chance of survival was if a CW ship came in response. Small parts of debris floated to Ethan’s left. He glanced back at the wormhole. Its swirling orange wall continued to extend forward. Parts of the station that exploded were being sucked in. The mouth of the tunnel widened. Ethan drifted toward it. He thrust against the force, but it had no effect. His velocity increased and a brilliant white light flashed at the far end of the tunnel again. He screamed as he let out the full load of energy in his motors, but it was useless. He spun around and looked back. The wormhole had surrounded the station and it careered toward him, closing in and gathering momentum as it entered further into the swirling anomaly. A large chunk of metal smashed against Ethan’s arm. The rest of the crippled station’s fragments were going to hit him in a matter of seconds. He covered his visor with his gloves and screamed as he, and the remnants of the station, headed into the oblivion created by the Atlantis ship.And all the while, Ethan thought, It’s not a myth! We’re doomed.

Chapter 2

Admiral Morgan gazed out of his window at the new CW—Commonwealth—recruits being marched around the parade square in their crisp dark blue uniforms. Running the command center and training wing meant he had the responsibility of ensuring Fides Prime produced humans, fidesians and the cross-breeds, fidians, that would continue to maintain order in the Salus Sphere—even during this prolonged twenty-year period of peace with the Axis Combine. Morgan hated the increasingly ceremonial nature of his role. Captains were still patrolling space while he inspected gleaming buildings and accepted salutes from rookies. The setting sun over the distant mountains told him it was time to go home, his shift was over for the day. He swept up his cap from the desk and turned to leave. Three rapid knocks sounded on his sturdy wooden door. A breathless soldier burst in before Morgan could answer. “What now?” Morgan said, irritated about the lack of courtesy. “You need to come to operations right away, Admiral,” the soldier said. He swallowed hard. Panic was written all over face. “It’s Orbital Forty…” Morgan frowned. “What about it?” “It’s gone.” “What do you mean, gone?” The soldier gestured to the corridor. “This way, Admiral. You’ll want to see this for yourself.” The CW Fleet hadn’t lost an orbital station in the thirty years since he joined. Eight were destroyed during the Century War with the Horan Empire, but that was different. Morgan knew the horans wouldn’t dare attack now. Despite the fact that they formed the Axis Combine with the vestans and lacterns and were building their capabilities, an all-out war risked too much for either side. Morgan’s boots squeaked along the black rubber floor as he followed the soldier down the white-walled corridors. Pictures hung at regular intervals of former officers who served with distinction during the war. They entered a glass elevator and the soldier depressed the button for the eighth floor—the location of the operations hall, where they tracked CW ships and communicated with every planet and station. Ops was the nerve center of the Salus Sphere, coordinating every mission. The brown-haired fidian soldier fidgeted with his cuff and avoided eye contact. Concern built inside Morgan. This felt like more than a pirate raid on an outer rim planet. “Well, Private, are you going to tell me any more?” Morgan said as they rode in the elevator. “It was attacked and I was sent straight to your office after we lost contact. We redirected a scout ship to the area and it only found a few pieces of debris.” “That’s impossible. Stations don’t just vanish.” The elevator doors smoothly slid open. Morgan strode out and headed to the main area. Rows of Ops staff sat behind desks. He could hear them communicating to stations, ships, and planets about the status of Orbital Forty, telling them to activate black alert procedures. That meant prepare for an imminent attack. It had been five years since CW activated a general black alert, when the horans feigned a probing assault on a mineral planet rich with uranium. Morgan guessed it was a bluff to test and monitor their reaction. The horans’ current empire had more than enough deposits to stop them taking such a risk. He was still on the command call, a communication sent to the heads of all operations when an event occurred. That provided a small crumb of comfort that he could at least keep his finger on the pulse of events around the Sphere. Large high-definition screens were spread around the walls of the operations hall. The one directly in the center showed the seventy-five orbital stations spread around the frontier of the Salus Sphere circling moons and planets. Morgan searched for Orbital Forty on the map amongst the light green globes that denoted them on the black screen. Like the soldier said, it was missing next to the faded outline of Retsina. Five officers stood around a central desk, all dressed in the operations uniform of light blue shirts with a name-tag on the chest, rank insignia on both arms, and dark blue cargo pants. They turned to face him as he approached. “Admiral Morgan,” a young officer said, “at 18:30 Salus Time, we received communications from Orbital Forty about a sudden burst of energy. We have a video feed of the events shortly afterward. A ship exited a wormhole and fired what we think are large ion cannons.” “A ship out of a wormhole? Are you sure?” Morgan asked. “I’ve made you a copy, sir,” the captain replied and handed him a memory chip. “Your soldier told me a scout ship only found a few pieces of debris. What other measures have you taken?” “We’ve sent orders to the nearest destroyer. It’s a light-year away and heading straight for Retsina in a hunting pattern.” Morgan glanced down at the desk at the orange blur in the middle of the flat screen. “Is that the feed?” The captain tapped the pressure keyboard and a light green timer ran in the top corner of the screen, displaying Retsina time. “This is the feed from Orbital Forty’s observation deck. I’ve sped it up to give you a better impression.” An orange swirl transformed into a tunnel and a bright light flashed at the end of it. A ship cruised through the wormhole. The description matched the myth. An imposing dull gray giant, although it had been reported to have a graphite sheen, cannons on the top and sides, four times bigger than the common CW standard. They only had ion cannons that size for ground defense. It fired at the station and uneven lines of static interference cut across the feed. Blue bolts of concentrated energy shot from both sides of the ship and pounded the station. The wormhole extended toward it and the feed stopped. Morgan took a deep breath. It looked like the myth that had become a joke amongst the ranks. During the Century War, a ship would appear from nowhere and attack both the horans and CW. It had no pattern, never communicated and had devastating weaponry. Eventually the story changed to blaming every disaster and crash, every missing person or just about anything that couldn’t be explained on the supposedly mythical Atlantis ship. “Do you have a fix on the ship?” “No, sir,” a tall thin female fidesian lieutenant said. “Do you think the wormhole swallowed the station?” Morgan replayed the images in his mind. He’d even stopped believing the Atlantis ship existed. Nobody had that kind of tech in the known universe. The rumors were that this ghost ship of destruction had trawled space for centuries, appearing in solar systems that were light-years apart in a matter of minutes, arbitrarily targeting anything it could find. The myth was the reason that people didn’t believe it existed. If CW and Axis technology wasn’t even close to accomplishing wormhole travel, how could a centuries-old ship? “It’s possible in theory,” Morgan said. “I need to report this to the Space Marshal. Stay on black alert, and if you find its location, I want every available ship in the area to bring hell down upon it.” Members of the ops team had stopped working and peered at Morgan. This was the first time as admiral he’d been tested. Twenty years of peace, punctuated with minor skirmishes against inferior forces, had left everybody in a comfort zone. The Atlantis ship had destroyed it with a single cruel blow. Morgan climbed into a two-seater transport pod outside the command center building and sat on the purple leather chair. The clear plastic door slid shut with an electric whine. He needed to come up with a realistic plan before speaking to Marshal Kenwright. The gruff old man was a fighter pilot during the Century War and the soldiers loved him. The senior officers under his command had a less favorable view because he didn’t suffer fools and wasn’t scared to speak his mind when he suspected they were taking the easy option. Morgan leaned toward the voice-recognition system’s speaker in front of him. “Area five. The marshal’s residence.” It set off along the magnetic track and whirred past the air base. Three black arrow-shaped drones took to the air, joining others outside the atmosphere as part of the black alert proactive defense shield. At the side of the airstrip, a crew of the fidesian artillery peered out of the windows of a hundred-meter-tall orbital cannon. The setting sun radiated off its white barrel and support rods. Without a firm location or a trackable path for the Atlantis ship, Kenwright wouldn’t commit a destroyer group to a search mission. It would leave sections of the Salus Sphere wide open. The old dog was cautious about this for a reason. The horan always looked for signs of weakness. If the Atlantis ship continued attacking CW stations, it would expose parts of the frontier and would require a destroyer presence to plug the gap. The pod slowed and stopped outside the stone gates of the marshal’s residence. Two soldiers guarded each side and held their X50 carbines across their chests. Only vestan heavy armor could stop a caseless round fired from an X50. With the motion finding and enhanced vision scope, it was the best on the market in terms of energy efficiency but lacked the stopping power of the energy weapons. Morgan stepped out and straightened his dark blue jacket. The door slid closed behind him and it hummed back toward the central pick-up point. “Good evening, Admiral,” the left soldier said and waved him through. Morgan returned the nod and thought they were getting younger with every year that passed. Or perhaps that was just him getting older. He walked up the road toward the large three-story lilac dome. The former marshal used to be a fidesian and had the place remodeled to look like the best houses on the planet. Kenwright didn’t bother changing it back to the typical square colonial style. He loved the fidesian culture and art. It showed in the way Kenwright arranged the residence gardens with native plants and statues of fidesian gods. Most humans liked to have their own little slice of Earth. Even though almost everyone had moved to the Salus Sphere over two hundred years ago after resources dried up and the ozone layer disappeared. Eight, ninth, and tenth generation humans lived in the Sphere along with a few sevens like Kenwright. Some humans crossbred with genetically modified fidesians to create fidians, but most still had reminders of the old world like grassed lawns, wooden benches and genetically engineered flowers made from DNA blueprints. Morgan saw it as misplaced nostalgia for a place they would probably never visit. If any did, they’d be bitterly disappointed to find a crumbling empty world, used as an outpost for pirates. The Salus Sphere provided everything they needed to sustain the species and a whole lot more. A junior officer met him at the pair of open front doors. He saluted. “This way, Admiral. The marshal’s expecting a strategy to find and destroy the ship.” “What does he know about it?” Morgan said, surprised that Kenwright already had the details. “He read the black alert order about the wormhole attack.” Morgan turned the chip in his hand and thought about the ideal person to send out in search of the Atlantis ship. Most of the well-drilled crew of the fleet were excellent in formation attack, but that wouldn’t do it. A set-piece battle would prove costly against the kind of weaponry used to take out an orbital station with a few shots. He needed something completely different to avoid exposing the Sphere to a horan invasion. Kenwright sat behind his white marble desk and gazed at a pair of monitors. Morgan’s footsteps echoed around the empty cream walls as he walked across the polished stone floor toward the desk. “I see the Atlantis ship’s back,” Kenwright said, keeping his focus on the screen. “I take it we haven’t managed to locate it?” An orange glow reflected across Kenwright’s face. Morgan guessed he’d ordered a copy of the Orbital Forty’s feed to watch in advance before their meeting. It didn’t surprise him that the old marshal would be all over this like a rash. “No, sir,” Morgan said. “It’s just like the historical reports from decades ago. A scout ship reported most of the station missing.” “And now we’ve finally seen the big ugly brute. I don’t recognize the design.” “Somebody once told me it was built by an ancient alien race who no longer exist. All part of the myth, I suppose. I’d like to put myself forward to take a capital ship out and hunt it down.” Kenwright slowly nodded and smoothed his gray mustache. “We lost two hundred good people today. I want you to put your best crew on it. You’re an admiral. I don’t expect my top team to put themselves forward.” “With respect, sir,” Morgan said but didn’t mean, “we need an experienced crew to capture something like this.” Kenwright rolled his eyes and sighed. “You’ve got your own responsibilities and I can’t allow it. Do you have anyone else in mind?” The response didn’t surprise Morgan. He expected it, but it was worth a shot. It was always worth having a plan B when dealing with the old goat. “I’ve already been thinking about that, sir,” Morgan said. He paused briefly, wondering if his suggestion would appeal to Kenwright’s maverick nature, or if he’d receive a dressing down. “We need to keep our frontier defended, but we have our own special predator. I’d like to ask your permission to contract Carson Mach.” A smile crept across Kenwright’s face. “Bleach is just the sort of crazy bastard that could pull this off. You have my authority to make the transfer from our central funds.” “Thank you, sir,” Morgan said. The use of Mach’s nickname irritated him, but it was well deserved. Whenever a dirty job needed doing, they always used him to clean up the mess. “I’ll start the ball rolling and update you later.” Kenwright narrowed his eyes. “Make sure you do. And not a word about this to anyone. If it’s known that I sanctioned a Bleach mission, it won’t be just my head on the block.” Morgan nodded, turned, and headed back outside. Dusk had firmly set in and he peered up at the tiny white dots of the drones buzzing around in the starry sky. Carson Mach had served with him on a destroyer twenty years ago and left the fleet after a string of charges and short spell in military prison. He couldn’t take discipline back then, but always delivered on his contracts after going freelance. The only nagging doubt was if Mach had finally let his vices completely consume his life. For the sake of the Salus Sphere, Morgan hoped that wasn’t the case.

Chapter 3

Carson Mach chambered a round in his SamCore Stinger, his favorite illegal firearm, and glared at the most hideous horan he’d ever seen at the far end of the bar. The horan, an ex-commander of an Axis Combine warship, glared back, the hate distorting his reptilian face. This one had dark crimson scales that looked wet and glossy under the bar’s neon lights. Ralex was the big bastard’s name, and he carried a bounty that Mach desperately needed to pay off his bar tab here in The Tachyon, lest he himself received a bounty on his head by the criminal owners, the Laverna. The horan wore a thin black robe over his muscular body. He leaned forward on the bar, propping his thick, bony elbows onto the surface. His green and yellow eyes stared right at Mach, not even pretending that he didn’t want to rip Mach into shreds and then feed him to the horan’s pet dogs—although dog was a generous term for the quadruped lizards with razor teeth and claws that slice through titanium. It was at this point, as Mach downed another shot of Gasmulch to stop his hands from trembling, that he thought about the terrible situation he was in. Ralex was the head of a rogue group of horans who had fled from the Axis Combine after they lost the war with the Commonwealth powers of the humans and the fidesians. This rogue group, unaffiliated with their former commanders, was free to roam the CW worlds as they saw fit, spreading their hate and bile as they went. Mach knew that the reptilian swine was planning something, some attack on one of the CW home worlds in the Fidesian system. The Commonwealth had gotten soft in the previous twenty years of peace. While they continued to expand the cultures of art and exploration throughout the now peaceful Salus Sphere, the Axis Combine were rebuilding their forces beyond the Non-Combat Zone: the ring around the sphere, where all parties had agreed not to establish any military outposts and to maintain a free-fly zone for all. It didn’t take a genius to know that the Axis were preparing for another attack. Letting scum like Ralex travel freely was naïve at best. “What are you looking at, filthy human?” the horan said in his dry, raspy voice. It was barely audible over the pulsing electronic music blaring out of The Tachyon’s speaker system. Mach squinted his right eye, the black one, and read the temperature of the horan. The beast was ten degrees warmer than his natural body heat. Mach had learned, through his prosthetic eye, that the horan’s lizard-like bodies became much hotter as they prepared for battle. He presumed it was a speeding up for the immune and metabolism systems—the very things that gave them their ability to regrow limbs. A tall thin fidesian wearing a leather waistcoat hurried behind the bar, serving people as quickly as she could, perhaps sensing things were about to hit the fan. The fidesian glanced at Mach; her ruby red eyes glinted under the lights, as though they were miniature nebulae as seen through a Hoffberg telescope. Her head, like the rest of her body, was almost bald. She, like all of her race, had a fair, almost transparent thin layer of hair on her skin, which under the right kind of sun had a hint of green to it. It was a look that appealed to Mach greatly. He liked the tall, lithe bodies of the fidesians, their shape the result of their home planet, Salus Prime’s lower than the average human world’s gravity. Her slight, thin mouth tensed at the edges. Mach knew this look; it was the disapproving look she had given him just that morning when he asked her to stay in bed for another round of copulation. That word always made him laugh; the fidesians loved their euphemisms almost as much as they loved to copulate. “I asked you a question,” Ralex rasped again. This time the big creature stood up from his stool, knocking it back, making a group of younger fidesians dart out of the way. Mach ignored the horan and took another gulp of his drink, finishing the bottle. The sweet buzz of the genetically modified alcohol spread throughout his body and limbs, loosening up forty-three-year-old muscles that had seen more combat and action any human had any right to. The Stinger vibrated gently against the leg of his GraphTech fatigues, letting him know the molecular disruption module was fully charged. Mach would only have two shots at this. If he missed, it was unlikely he’d beat the horan in hand-to-hand combat; they were just too big and powerful, even with Mach’s varied prosthetic upgrades. Even a human with advanced tech couldn’t regrow limbs or benefit from having three compartmentalized hearts like a horan. And it was those differences, among others, that made the horans think they were superior to the CW species. The bartender saw Mach empty his bottle. She swiped it away from the bar and gave him a knowing look that said, “Don’t do anything stupid,” but copulation aside, she didn’t really know Mach all that well; being stupid was what he did best. “You really are ugly, even for your kind,” Mach eventually said with a growl to his opposition. The hush in the bar seemed to get heavy as the varied patrons sucked in their breath at the insult. From the corner of his eye he watched as most of the bar emptied. A few others stayed, hiding in shadows to watch the fight. “I’m serious,” Mach added. “Were your parents experimenting or something? They must have either laughed or cried when they saw what crawled out of their egg. It’s no wonder you were chucked out of the Axis Combine.” Through his temperature filter, he saw the horan’s body continue to enflame. Ralex pushed away from the bar, swiping the barstool violently to one side with his thick, barbed tail. This was what Mach was hoping for; he spotted the black matte blade attached to the end of the tail; the bastard was equipped with a stun knife. One hit from that, and Mach would be paralyzed. Better make this one quick, he thought. He turned to the bartender. “You better duck for cover while you make me a cocktail. I’m gonna need a drink after this,” he said in Salus Common, an amalgamation of English and Fidesian that had become the majority language all across the Salus Sphere. She blinked her beautiful eyes and did as he suggested, moving in her elegant way. She really was quite a special one and the sole reason why he had spent the last six standard months drinking away his gambling winnings here… totally nothing to do with forgetting about his court-martial with the Commonwealth Defense Force, and totally nothing to do about his broken, now nonexistent marriage, and least of all the loss of pension and earnings. Letting the Gasmulch help with his denial, and sheer stupidity, Mach picked up a shot glass and threw it with his cybernetic right arm toward the horan. As soon as the glass left his hand, Mach rolled to his right, falling to the ground. Ralex roared as the glass struck him on the face. The horan leapt up onto the bar with the spring of a Salusian wildcat, smashing his tail left and right, the stun tip sparking as it struck against the wall of bottles, each one smashing, sending fragments of glass spraying around the bar. His robe, although looking thin, was a mesh of graphene and deflected the shards as though they were nothing more than seeds in the wind. Coming out of his roll, Mach rose up on one knee and pulled the Stinger from his hip holster. The horan likewise had raised a weapon: a small laser blaster from a hidden compartment on his forearm. “Sneaky fucking lizard,” Mach muttered as the scenario started to slow down for him, the BuzzKill stim finally reacting to his adrenalin. He got off a shot before the horan could aim the laser. Both men fired… and missed. Mach’s blast flew over Ralex’s left shoulder. The horan’s laser bolt struck a fidesian somewhere behind Mach in the shadows, the yelp telling him it was a young male. Ralex leapt off the bar with a low hiss. Mach staggered back and ducked below the swipe of the tail. He dodged to his right, rolling over a table and firing his second blast from the Stinger. The shot hit this time, catching Ralex on the ribcage. The blast sent the horan crashing to the ground, clutching his wound as the disruption bolt ate away at the muscle and sinew. A loud explosion erupted from behind Mach. He swung around to see three massive silhouettes appear in a nonlethal cloud of paralyzing gas. Shit, Invidian security droids! Although not unexpected, they were quicker than he had hoped. Someone must have set him up; they didn’t normally give a crap about bar fights, or… anything, really. The planet Invidia was the place that let anything go, which was one of the many reasons why Mach liked it here… well, like was a strong word, but few planets would allow the likes of Mach to stay around for long. He was the portent of trouble, after all; the Ill Wind, some factions had called him; Bleach, by others for his ability to go in and clean up a situation no matter how dangerous or risky it might be. Just like this one, he thought. Before the droids could open fire, Mach used his heightened senses to locate the exits now that the droids had cut him off from his previously planned route. There was a door to the staff office in front of him and behind the horan that stood in his way, now even more furious. Mach noticed that the effects of the disruptor blast hadn’t lasted; Ralex’s system was already repairing the damaged tissue and the horan was stalking Mach with murderous intent. This really wasn’t going to plan, but when did it ever? Mach hit a button on the smart-screen wrapped around his left forearm. He had earlier spent two eros on a jukebox playlist. The blaring sounds of space metal, his favorite fighting music, drowned out the sounds of screams and droid servos. The pounding beat and the driving riffs helped the BuzzKill stim to further enter his system, slowing time down further, making his reactions borderline impossible. He would pay for this in the morning, but right now he didn’t care. He had a big damned horan wanting to rip his face off, a group of droids sent by god knows who, and great music pounding into his ears. Bliss! This was goddamned bliss. Without looking behind him, he unclipped an EMP grenade from his GraphTech utility belt and tossed it somewhere toward the back of the bar. The bright blue flash and the fizzing sparks told him that the droids hadn’t yet been upgraded to defend against nanopulse technology. With a big grin on his face, Mach crouched down to receive the charge from Ralex. “Come on, bring it!” Mach yelled as he dropped his Stinger and pulled out his combat knife. There was nothing technologically special about this thing, just a sharp piece of metal that could cut through granite given enough force. Ralex bounded into Mach, slugging him around the face with a heavy, scaly fist. Mach didn’t feel the pain, but the physics of it sent him flying two meters back into the bar. His head hit the surface, making his vision blurry. The horan stepped closer and whipped his tail around. Mach just about managed to fall out of the way. As he did so, the creature’s momentum brought him close enough that Mach was almost laying directly beneath him, between Ralex’s pair of thick, powerful legs. The music hit the chorus and a chugging riff blared out as Mach grinned as wide as he had for months. He slammed the knife upwards, driving up with as much strength as he and the various stims in his blood would allow. Ralex’s tail whipped frantically, but he wasn’t articulated enough to be able to reach down to hit Mach. Green blood poured from the horan as Mach twisted the blade and jerked it forward, splitting the alien apart. Ralex’s innards flopped out, bringing with them an acidic stench that made Mach want to gag. On some worlds, these would be cooked into a delicacy. He never bothered to try and this would likely put him off forever. With a piercing yell that was audible even over the jukebox, the horan slumped back onto his own tail, the stun tip striking his back, sending the beast into a frenzied spasm. Mach rolled out of the way and pulled himself up to his feet, leaning against the bar. He reached over and grabbed another bottle of Gasmulch. He took a long draw and watched as the horan continued to jerk and twist, all the while trying to reach for his varied organs that now lay in a slump on the floor. He turned the volume of the jukebox down by tapping the control program on his smart-screen. The bartender stood up from her hiding position below it. She eyed Mach with that disapproving look again. “I’m sorry,” Mach said to her. “I’ll pay for it.” He held out his forearm and let her swipe the transaction rod over his smart-screen. It transferred thirty eros for the bottle. “Thanks,” Mach said, recognizing she had given him a discount. “I never liked Ralex,” she said, her thin lips showing the barest hint of a smile. “You better finish him off and go collect your bounty before more Invidian security turn up. You’ve caused quite the mess.” After slugging another shot, Mach placed his hand on her shoulder, mostly to steady himself. “They’re not damaged… much,” he said, nodding to the pile of inert droids. “A reboot and they’ll be fine… mostly.” “You better put the horan out of his misery. He’ll be like that for days, trying to regenerate.” With a sigh, Mach nodded. “I suppose you’re right, but given what his lot did to our people, a little bit of suffering is due, don’t you think?” Under her breath she said, “I do, but Carlo Laverna didn’t offer the bounty for suffering, did he?” “No, he didn’t. Oh well, I guess fun time’s over.” “For now,” the bartender said with a wink as she headed to the other end of the bar to serve a group of fidesians wearing a nice shade of panic and shock on their faces. Mach staggered over to the writhing horan. He bent over its body. “Ralex, my old buddy, I bet that stings? Well, I can help you with that.” The horan gurgled something deep in his throat in response. Bored with the situation now, Mach reloaded and fired his Stinger to put Ralex out of his misery. Using the smart-screen sleeve, he scanned the body for signs of life; there were none. He took a photo of the corpse and a recording of the scan and sent it to the head of the Lavernan crime syndicate, Carlo: Scans and evidence of the completed job—as promised. I’ve attached my secure eros account transfer credentials. I’d prefer cryptocurrency on this one. Don’t want it coming back to me if we get audited by Central Accounts. Within two ST—Salus Time—minutes, he received a response notification: Impressive work, Mach. When you want some more jobs, you know where to come. Funds have cleared. Enjoy your hangover. Mach smiled as he read his account notification. The Lavernans were many things, but they always paid what they promised, and in this case it seemed they’d given him a bonus. The job should have paid three hundred thousand eros, but they’d thrown in an extra fifty grand. They were trying to keep him sweet. The Lavernan Syndicate had been trying to recruit him for years, ever since he got court-martialed from the CW Defense Force. But these days, he preferred to be a freelancer; non-affiliation kept his options open. It also meant he knew who his enemies were: everyone. He waved goodbye to the bartender and exited The Tachyon into the sunny evening of Invidia. They’d only get two hours of darkness tonight and he intended to make the most of it. He decided to head for the beach and drink cocktails until he either passed out or got arrested. Just three steps away from The Tachyon he walked right into an Invidian security droid. With the BuzzKill stim wearing off, he had the reactions of a slug and couldn’t avoid the blow to the head. He crashed to the ground as the blackness of unconsciousness took over.

Chapter 4

Cold air wafted around Mach’s bare limbs, making his skin crawl. The bright light beyond his closed eyes made it seem as though he were behind a red curtain. At least that was an improvement on blackness. The pain in his head made him groan as he tried to move. His face hurt. His spine hurt. His legs, arms, feet, jaw and chest… hurt. At first he wondered if he had been in a ship crash or had decided on an unauthorized naked space walk. Carson Mach had done many odd things in his life, but never that… so why did it feel like it? He blinked his eyes, letting the light in slowly so his pupils had time to adjust. The prosthetic had no problem; it dilated automatically down to a tiny aperture if needed, but his real eye, that would take time to adjust. The hard surface he was slumped on told him exactly where he was even before his vision adjusted to the brightness: Invidia prison. Of course! It all came flooding back to him. And then he smiled when he thought of his three and a half grand sitting in an off-planet account. He was in the clink—again. The light gray surfaces only stained slightly but with old blood. A single hard bed and a shit-pan in the corner decorated the two-meter-square room. An electronic whir of servos grabbed his attention and reminded him in stark clarity of why his head and face hurt: the droid. “Was it you?” Mach groaned. He made out the bipedal form of the Invidian security droid—or sec-bot as most people called them—looking at him via a vid-screen on the east wall of the cell. This particular sec-bot had a snide attitude to it. Its singular orb of an eye, set within a narrow rectangular face, spun as it focused on Mach. Somewhere within its head lay a quantum chip running its AI program. It often surprised a lot of visitors to Invidia that these sec-bots had distinct personalities. Some people, mostly idiots, thought they were self-aware and conscious. Which Mach knew was utterly ridiculous. He had tested this theory so many times that he now knew most of the sec-bots by their serial number. This one, no. 8094-12, known as just 94-12, had arrested Mach on at least fifteen occasions, mostly due to Mach shooting it, shutting it down with EMPs, or messing with its code for shits and giggles. At no time during all that did it display any kind of self-preservation. It was just a big dumb robot. Mach knew he was getting stale, lazy, if he could be so lax as to be sucker punched and arrested by 94-12—the dumbest of all big dumb robots on the security force. “Carson Mach,” it said, with a strangely cheery male voice that wouldn’t be out of place in a church choir. “You’ve been arrested for…” It reeled off a long list of crimes for the next minute and a half, making Mach yawn. “Just tell me the damage,” Mach said. “How big’s the fine this time?” Given his little bonus from the Syndicate, he wasn’t too bothered. His bar tab was probably higher than his fine. Usually he’d give the warden a little ‘gift’ of ten k eros and he’d be on his way, after having had a nice night’s sleep and a delicious prison breakfast. It was a running joke on Invidia that if you wanted to take a date out for a nice meal you should get her arrested first. “Your fine, Carson Mach,” 94-12 said, “has the remaining balance of two point three million eros.” Mach didn’t think he heard correctly at first and ordered the stupid sec-bot to repeat. But to his horror, the numbers didn’t change. And there was a troubling word in that sentence too—remaining. Leaning forward, now feeling very much awake, Mach said, “What the hell are you talking about? That’s outrageous! I only killed one person this time, and the security droids will be fine after a reboot. There wasn’t even that much damage to the bar, and what in god’s name do you mean ‘remaining balance’?” “We have seized your ship and all of its possessions, the value of which we have assessed to be seven hundred thousand eros, leaving a remaining balance of—” “Yes, I heard you the second time!” Mach said, standing and walking around in circles in the tiny two-meter-square cell. A three-million-eros fine! It was simply… “Bullshit,” Mach said, slapping his hand uselessly against the vid-screen. “I want to see the warden, right now.” “That won’t be possible.” “And why’s that, you waste of silicon?” “Warden Farage has been indicted on charges of fraud and sent to Summanus to serve out the rest of his life.” Summanus—the prison planet! Mach reeled back and slumped onto the hard bed. This wasn’t right; no one on Invidia was charged with fraud—ever. It was just how things worked here. It was currency for laws and for the most part it worked well. Invidia wasn’t even an affiliated planet under the governance of the CW. “Who even has the jurisdiction to do that?” Mach asked. Invidia didn’t even have its own government. The security force was privately funded by a treaty account set up by the various criminal families. As odd as it was, it worked out okay; even the families knew there had to be some kind of order, even if the punishment was financial. “Do you have sufficient funds to pay your fine?” the sec-bot asked. “No, you know I don’t; you stole all my gear. I’ve nothing else to give.” He didn’t mention his off-planet account. They’d have wiped out his CW account and pension, along with anything else they had found in his ship. He didn’t want to give the buggers his last remaining funds. “Sentencing will begin this afternoon in lieu of payment.” “This is madness! No one on Invidia has ever faced charges. We can work something out, I’m sure. A payment plan perhaps? Let me talk with the new warden.” Mach could have sworn that 94-12 smiled as he said so very cheerily, “I am the new warden. I’ll return in one hour to see if you have found the funds required for your fine. Good day, Carson Mach.” The vid-screen switched off just as Mach ripped the bed plank from the wall and threw it against the screen. The plank bounced off without harming the surface and clattered to the floor, knocking over the shit-pan. “Just great,” he yelled, slapping his palm against the wall. This was not what he had expected at all. He tried to call someone, but his smart-screen wouldn’t connect. They’d updated the security protocols, closing the loophole in the system he had often used to get in touch with Carlo or other heads of families. He’d need to find a new way out, hack into the system, but that would take far longer than the one hour that 94-12 had given him. There was no way he could cover the fine. In his off-planet account, he had just over nine hundred grand, and that was the sum of everything now that his ship had been reprocessed and sold on. A slight comfort came to him as he thought about the ship’s various problems that he’d managed to hide from the dock inspection during his last authentication. Whoever had bought it would soon realize the fusion motors were shot and the LightDrive barely functioned below two hundred HPL—hours per light-year—making it possibly the slowest FTL ship in the Salus Sphere and a prime target for raiders and pirates. He considered himself lucky 94-12 had gotten as much as he did for it. But it still didn’t help him out of this particular hole. There were few options left open to him. In time he may be able to hack some comms to Carlo and get a loan, or there was the option of breaking out, though that seemed as likely as busting someone out of Summanus, which to his knowledge had never been done. Perhaps if he could convince 94-12 to come and see him personally, he could try to override its functions… As that idea started to coalesce, his smart-screen around his forearm buzzed with an incoming notification. “Whoa…” he said, whistling as he looked at his screen and saw who it was calling him—Admiral Morgan. They hadn’t spoken in at least three or four years. At one time, Mach and Morgan were like father and son, the latter was his commanding officer during Mach’s entire career. Their unit had the highest kill and success rate of any CW military unit. Until the Situation happened and Mach was thrown out of the force. Morgan was then promoted to the admiralty and oversaw the naval fleet. Easy job these days, though, considering the peacetime. Mach always viewed it as a way for the CW hierarchy to keep Morgan out of trouble. He was a hero to the home Sol System for his efforts during the war when Earth and Mars were on the precipice of horan control. If it wasn’t for Morgan, the system would have fallen and humanity’s first home would be no more than a slave world. Mach, however, didn’t have such heroics to keep him nice and safe in a cushy role upstairs, so why, after all this time, would Morgan be calling him now? Given the changes to the warden and the fine system, it didn’t take a genius to realize these events were linked. The notification bleeped again. Mach tapped his finger on the screen, accepting the call. A hologram image of Admiral Morgan appeared above his screen. “Well, well,” Mach said. “It’s the old man. How are you doing?” He looked old, Mach thought. Not just regular old, but tired, worn out… as though lacking in vitality. It appeared a life in the pen-pushing admiralty wasn’t his kind of thing after all. The wrinkles around his eyes were deeper, craggy. His eyes were deeper set and shadowed by a low brow. “You look like you’ve had an interesting day,” Morgan said, an uneasy smile on his face that reminded Mach of those days when his lovers inevitably delivered their speech about how much they loved him and that’s why they had to leave. “It’s something bad, ain’t it, Morg?” The older man nodded his head. “We didn’t want to have to do this, but we had little choice. You wouldn’t have agreed otherwise, I’m sure of it. I know your feelings toward the CW Defense Force, and if we just came to you asking for help, you would quite rightly tell us to go ram our heads up our collective asses.” “You’re quite the mind reader these days, old friend. So you’re telling me that you arranged all this? The removal of the warden, the ridiculous fine?” “I’m afraid so.” “You know,” Mach said, shaking his head with disappointment. “Would it have killed you to have put our friendship, our history first, and give me a heads-up? At least have given me a choice. You know I can’t afford that fine.” “Yeah, I know. We know.” “And who exactly is we?” Mach asked. He leaned against the wall and dropped his arm for a moment. He was still hurting from his beating the night before. “Are you still there, Mach?” “Yeah, I’m still here. My arm hurts is all. So you better just get on with it. What do your bastard superiors want with me this time? Some crime they want to pin on me? A suicide mission into the NCZ?” The NCZ—Non-Combat Zone—was the ring around the Salus Sphere that the treaty between the Commonwealth and the Axis Combine listed as a safety zone. In truth, it had become a freeway for lawlessness. Occasionally, the CW would send out a number of scientific ships to scan some sector of space for the Hoffberg Protocol, the project to identify habitable planets outside of the Salus Sphere and the areas under the control of the Axis Combine. “None of that,” Morgan said, with what Mach thought was a slight tremble in his voice. Mach couldn’t tell if it was fear, nerves, or something else. He raised his arm to stare into the holographic eyes of his old friend. “So what is it? What do you want me for?” Morgan looked away for a moment, appeared to give someone a nod and returned to Mach. “Orbital Station Forty is no more.” Mach racked his brains. It had been quite a while since he had memorized all the CW orbitals and various stations. “Is that the one above Retsina?” “It was,” Morgan said. The two words echoed in Mach’s mind, birthing a hundred ideas and consequences. “War?” he uttered. “An Axis attack?” It made sense, really. Retsina was a small planet on the very edge of the Salus Sphere. The orbital provided secure communications and defensive network systems. These stations created a first line of defense against any potential attack from the Axis and covered the entire collection of CW planets. “Not an Axis attack, no, something far more troubling.” “Just spit it out, old man. I’m running out of time here. Just tell me, what the hell’s happened and what do I need to do in order to get out of here.” “Just one thing,” Morgan said, looking at Mach directly so their eyes locked. “You must find, and disable… the Atlantis Ship.” At first Mach laughed, thinking Morgan was yanking his chain, but the seriousness with which the words were spoken told Mach he was deadly serious. The Atlantis ship was just a myth; everyone knew that. It was like the ghost ships of old. Tired, drunk, scared sailors would often see things in the fog and attribute it to a dread ship sailed by ghosts. The Atlantis ship was just the same thing. Mach had been in deep space enough to know the human mind often saw all kinds of weird shit out there. When the CW pushed its crew hard, especially during the conflicts with the Axis, people got stressed, saw things that weren’t there. The idea of this Atlantis ship just appearing and disappearing while leaving a wake of destruction behind was just the fever dreams of the scared or the insane. The myth had been around ever since humanity first settled a colony on Mars. “Did you hear me, Mach?” “Yeah, I heard you. I was just wondering what you’ve been drinking recently. Or have you taken to enjoying the benefits of stims in your old age?” “Dammit, Mach, I’m serious. We received a distress signal earlier just before the ship arrived and obliterated the station. We have a snippet of video too, if you don’t believe. An Ethan Bloom, one of the mechanics, managed to record a few seconds before he, along with most of the orbital, was sucked into the Atlantis ship’s closing wormhole.” Mach wanted to dispute it, say it was all a load of crap, but Morgan’s hologram changed to a 3D video of the recording. All Mach could see was floating debris passing over the head of Bloom’s helmet cam. When the mechanic looked up, the great looming shape of a dark ship completely filled the view. The thing looked… ancient was the only word Mach could come up with. It was of a design the likes of which he’d never seen before. The ship was ginormous any way you looked at it. Before he could focus in on any detail, Bloom screamed and turned his head. For a split second, Mach saw the collapsing wormhole, a swirling ball of orange and black colors, sucking in anything close to it. The rear of the ship broke away from it and away from the field of view. The recording became static as the mechanic’s scream was cut off by the radiation in the wormhole. Mach stood in stunned silence. Morgan reappeared in the hologram above his wrist. “Well?” “Well… I think that’s all kinds of madness. That was no ship of the Axis.” “Of course it wasn’t. It’s the Atlantis ship. You know it; I know it; that poor sod Ethan Bloom knew it. As quick as it arrived and destroyed the orbital, it was gone, vanished, like the damned stories of old. It’s real, Mach, the damned ship is real. And we want you to find it before it destroys anything else.” “Why me? Why not send one of your CW destroyers after it?” “I wish it were that simple. Dealings with the Axis have become difficult. The treaty is on the verge of collapse and they’re massing forces on three fronts: the horans to the north, vestans to the east, and lacterns to the south. All our resources are being geared up for a potential war. We cannot afford to go after this thing, and…” He broke away, but Mach knew what he was going to say. “I’m the only one mad enough to do something so stupid? It’s essentially a suicide mission, isn’t it?” “I don’t think the odds are good, let me put it that way. We want you to find the ship, board it, and disable it. It’d be a huge coup for the CW if we could capture it and reverse-engineer the tech. You’d be doing the Salus Sphere a huge favor, Mach. This is your way back into the fold. A way to clear your name.” “How much?” he asked, not caring about clearing his name or doing the CW any favors. He was way beyond that now. “What do you mean?” Morgan asked. “How much will I be paid to do this? I’m only interested in cash. And seeing as your lot have forced my hand with this crazy fine, I want to make sure that I enjoy my last few months or years while I go after a myth.” “We’re cleared to offer three million eros, a CW ship and crew.” “No,” Mach. “I won’t work with a CW crew. If I’m doing this, I want my fine cleared, the three million on top, and a choice of my own crew. My terms are non-negotiable. I’d rather be sent to Summanus than do this for anything less.” The shadowed ‘hold’ image replaced Morgan’s face as he was probably delivering Mach’s terms to his superiors. They must be desperate, Mach thought, if they had come to him. Just how big was the Axis threat if they couldn’t even spare one destroyer from their fleet of twenty thousand? Morgan returned. “We agree to your terms. A CW ship will pick you up tomorrow. Your fine will be cleared, and half the funds will be deposited into an escrow account to pay for your crew. Who do you have in mind, and will it take you long to mobilize?” “You leave the crew choice to me, Morgan and I’ll do this mission for you.” “Fine, it’s probably better I don’t know anyway.” This time Morgan gave Mach a genuine smile, reminding him of the old days when they had patrolled the NCZ together. They had some good times until the Situation. “Okay, Morg, consider this my formal acceptance. One way or another, I’ll find that damned ship.”

Chapter 5

Mach had to stay in the prison cell for another full day as he waited for the CW-approved ship to arrive from one of the nearby orbitals. At least he had some good food and rest during that time to consider how the hell he was going to find a mythical ship. No, he thought. It’s no longer a myth. 94-12 personally escorted him from the prison and shut the gate behind him. It was chirping about something, but Mach wasn’t paying any attention, happy to be back outside in the bright sunshine on a new day. The dumb robot refused to give him back his Stinger, though. Mach had thought about making more of a scene, but the funds in the escrow account would be plenty for him to get re-armed. He checked his smart-screen for the time. The shuttle wasn’t due for another two standard hours, so he decided he should perhaps book into one of the local motels to freshen up and make a plan. And the walk would do him good. Invidia really was quite a pleasant-looking planet with its bright sunshine that wasn’t too warm or too cold, its sandy beaches that stretched for miles around its island landmasses, each one connected together via the maglev monorail system. Along each beach there were innumerable bars and eateries, all of which were owned by one crime family or another, but as long as you weren’t a dick, then you’d be fine. Which was always Mach’s problem; sometimes he just had to be a dick for the fun of it. Life was just too dull to go about one’s business without causing a little bit of an uproar. The traffic this morning was slow. Mach remembered it was a public holiday and sighed when he realized he’d be charge ten times the going rate for the motel room. He’d have to keep track of all these expenses if he was going to have enough for all the things he thought he might need for this mission, his crew being one of them. They would not be cheap. He had them in mind as soon as Morgan offered him the job. There were few people more daring and risk loving than him, and he knew all three of them. He just had to find a way of getting them on side. One of them would be easy enough, but the other two… well, he’d cross that bridge when he came to it. The sidewalks were quiet with few pedestrians out doing business. Looking over to his left and down the low cliff side, he saw where they all were: at the beach, under their graphene umbrellas, stripping off to get the famed Invidia tan. Drink and stim vendors wandered in sandals up and down the beach, doing a brisk trade. The families would be happy; the vendors were usually the first lot of new recruits. Most of them were young kids from the ’burbs or neighboring planets looking to make their fortunes. Few ever did, really. It was one thing vending drinks and stims to the locals, it was another to deal arms and ships with unaffiliated factions. That’s where all the real money was—and bounty hunting, of course. But then that took a special kind of stupid—the brand of stupid that Mach had made his own since leaving the stifling regulations of the CW. Dart-shaped ships whizzed by overhead, their atmosphere fusion drives whining above a low almost subsonic bass thump. Street racers were at it again. He counted in his head, five, four, three, two, one… The sirens of four sec-bot interceptors peeled out around him, echoing against the polymer-fronted buildings of the financial district. He smiled as the flat disks flew overhead in pursuit of the racers. They wouldn’t catch them; Mach knew those engines were non-regulation, he could tell by the smell of sulfur in the air. They would mix a potent range of powders into their fuel to max the KPH of their crafts. A dozen or so passersby watched the proceedings before returning their gaze to their forearms, their smart-screens delivering them the news of the day. He ignored them and crossed a small bridge that arched over a bright blue stream. Below the bridge he saw the manic movements of a school of yellow piper fish frantically swimming against the tide, snapping at any smaller morsel that passed their hungry mouths. Carlo had once used them to torture a rival. They tasted great with fried Sol potatoes. At the end of the bridge, he headed across a grassy area until he came to a glass building constructed to resemble a huge arc. The glass was tinted a metallic blue today, reflecting the rich tones of the cloudless sky above. He waved his forearm across the door scanner, entering his credentials. The door opened and he walked inside, stopping at a telepresence concierge. The holographic fidesian wore a pink silk scarf around her head, covering her hairless pate. She smiled at him. “Welcome to the Invidigroup Motel, Mr. Kain, what can I do for you today?” Kain was his pseudonym that he used for his everyday work. An old friend of his, Kingsley, had created a hacked ID chip that allowed Mach to set up to twelve different names and identities. Perfect for staying off the grid and out of the CW’s watchful eye. “I’d like a room for an hour,” Mach said. “I’m afraid as it’s a holiday today, Mr. Kain, our rates have gone up. And I’ll have to charge a full day’s rate.” “What? I’ve been here hundreds of times and booked rooms for a few hours at a time. So what, it’s a holiday, do loyal customers not get some preferential treatment?” The downside of dealing with a telepresence meant that he couldn’t bribe it without the appropriate hacking software packages, none of which were currently available for this model of holographic concierge. It was an arms race these days between telepresence companies and hackers. The concierge started to waffle on about rules and regulations when Mach’s attention was taken away from her by the sound of a ship landing right outside the motel on the grass. Most unusual. Mach exited the motel and waited a second for his vision to adapt to the change of light. His prosthetic eye scanned the ship and delivered to him the recorded specifications from its public serial ID number. Of course! A CW ship. This one was a Phalanx-E—the E standing for executive. It measured twenty meters from bow to stern and five point five at its widest part: the two stub wings that flowed toward the stern with a slight bow curve. It looked brand new to Mach, with its black curved windshield and spotless matte silver hull and wings. A tail fin rose ten meters into the air, the base of which held the two swollen pill-shape fusion motors. It was as dull to look at as it was to pilot. He’d used them before when he was an officer and had to escort CW dignitaries around various systems. It was barely faster than the broken ship 94-12 had sold. With a depressed sigh, Mach walked over to the right side of the hull, knowing this was the ship Morgan had said he could use. The damnable ship didn’t even have a laser turret, let alone disruption emitters. As he approached, the square door hissed and lowered to the ground, creating a ramp, at the top of which stood two young CW cadets, still wearing their blue training uniforms. Each one had a single white stripe attached to their left shoulder: junior pilots, otherwise known as JPs. They were the first step of the CW Defense Force ladder. This meant neither of them would have even been outside of the Salus Sphere. Their only flight-combat experience, if they even had that, would have come from the simulators at Fides Prime’s training center. Mach shook his head in disbelief. How could Morgan have sent him two greenhorns and a glorified taxi and expect him to hunt down the biggest, baddest ship in the known universe. You wouldn’t give a hunter a blunt spoon to take down a Salusian saberdog. The two JPs gave him a perfect salute and stepped down the ramp, their motions perfectly in sync. Mach just watched them approach, still in somewhat of a fog of disbelief. He pondered that he could take the ship and leave the newbs behind. He’d get a decent amount of cash for a perfect condition Phalanx-E and could put that toward a decent-but-used warship that might actually have some luck at surviving the pirates in the outer rim, let alone take on the Atlantis ship. On the exchange boards, he’d seen a fairly nice vestan Battle Budgie, named after the Axis Combine’s strategy of sending one into a battle zone to see if it died or not. They were small, tough craft that could take a beating. When put together in a squad, they could cause havoc to larger ships. The best thing about the Budgies was their LightDrives. They could fly almost as fast as a CW destroyer, clocking in an impressive sixty-five HPL. And that was done on a modest fuel load, meaning one could get around the Salus Sphere and beyond without too much fear of a pirate interception. “Sir, did you hear us?” the boy said, dragging Mach away from his thoughts. “Yes, JP, I heard you. What’re your names?” “I’m Danick, and this is Lassea, my sister.” “It’s an honor to work with you, sir,” Lassea said, bowing slightly. Mach hid his distaste for this formal bullshit and tried to remember that he too once was a greenhorn. “At ease, you two, this is no CW mission. I won’t need any of that formal stuff. Call me captain or Mach, your choice, it doesn’t matter to me. Now listen, the first thing we need to do is get this taxi off this grass. It belongs to one of the biggest crime families in the sector and wasn’t designed for landing ships on.” Danick blushed and fidgeted. Mach realized they were twins. They both stood at about five and a half feet tall and wore their dark brown hair closely cropped as per CWDF regulation. Neither featured what one would call an athletic physique. To Mach they looked malnourished with sunken cheeks and barely an ounce of fat on their bodies. They both stared at him with blue eyes, waiting for further instructions. “To get the ship off the grass, one has to actually fly the thing. You two are JPs, right?” “Yes, sir, Mach, I mean Captain,” the girl said, turning on her heel and striding up the ramp. Her brother, Danick, followed. Mach shook his head and entered the craft, wondering why on the all the sins he had ever committed he had been lumbered with this pair. Once inside the ship, Mach entered the bridge and took the central captain’s chair. The two twins sat either side of him at a pair of navigation consoles, their hands poised over the holographic haptic displays. Mach breathed in the smell of new ship. It still had that stringent smell about it of drying glue and welded polymers. His seat was upholstered in the softest of Bora leather. He sank into its cushions and felt himself relax for a moment. The sparse light-gray design of the CW shipbuilders brought it all back to him: his days in the force, rising up the ranks until he became an officer of his cruiser. If he hadn’t fucked things up, he would have been navigating his own destroyer by now. But then who needed a destroyer when one was going to get the Atlantis ship. “Okay, kids, let’s get on with this, shall we? We’ll get to know each other on the two-day journey.” Lassea turned to face him. “What is our destination, Captain?” Mach grinned as he delivered the coordinates. Both Lassea and Danick balked, speaking at the same time. “What? The prison planet via the Vekron Valley? But, Captain, that’s certain death through there. The horans are supplying the freedom fighters.” “Indeed, my young charges. Is there a problem with that?” Danick added, “The AI won’t let us plot a course that close to the NCZ.” “He’s right, Captain,” Lassea added. “It’s too dangerous.” “Is it now? Tell me, do you two also let your mother wipe your ass?” The twins opened their mouths and closed them, reminding him of those yellow piper fish. “This is our ship, and now, despite my reservations, you are my crew—for now—so let me show you how to fly this waste of metal. Someone pass me a laser blaster.” Danick reached under the console and brought out a plastic box with a yellow caution sticker on the front. He entered a code and opened the box, retrieving the laser blaster. He handed it to Mach, thankfully not barrel-first. “You keep guns in safety cases now?” he said, raising an eyebrow. “Protocol, Captain,” Lassea said. “Peacetime… goddamned peacetime has turned everyone into a bunch of scared pups.” Mach took the gun and approached Danick’s console. He rested a hand on the boy’s bony shoulder. “Is this the AI-Nav?” The boy nodded. Mach shot it twice. Smoke billowed from the black box, sending sirens and lights wailing in the bridge. “Turn all that crap off,” he shouted to Lassea. The girl frantically looked for the override codes. Mach just sat back and waited. Eventually, she found the correct button and brought the ship back to an oasis of calm. “Right, Danick, tell me, how old are you two?” “Nineteen, Captain.” “Well, let’s see if you two can see twenty. Enter the coordinates for the Vekron Valley.” “We don’t have any outboard weapons, Captain,” Lassea said, her face becoming pinched with fear and panic. “Well, I guess we’ll have to improvise, won’t we? Now hit that launch button and let’s get going. I’ve got a crew to get and the quicker we get to Summanus, the quicker we can go after the Atlantis ship.” “Um…” Danick said, his hand hovering over the manual flight controls. “What is it?” Mach said. “We don’t have credentials to enter Summanus space.” “That thing I said about improvisation? That extends to breaking into a prison. Now launch this bird. That’s an order, boy.” Mach grinned as Danick touched a trembling hand to the manual launch controls and set the coordinates for the Vekron Valley. One way or another, these JPs would find out if they were good enough to be on Carson Mach’s crew.

Chapter 6

With Carson Mach agreeing to take the Atlantis ship assignment, Morgan knew he had the Commonwealth’s best man on the job, not that he’d admit it to Mach’s face. The Atlantis ship’s weapons could wipe the smile away in a heartbeat. Successful completion would achieve Morgan’s dream of captaining the flagship, returning to active service and shedding the boredom of his ceremonial position. Some people dreamed of being an admiral, for him it took away his purpose. With the Axis massing on the edge of their empire, the CW didn’t have enough combat-experienced officers on active duty. In order to assist Mach’s mission, Morgan decided to visit the man that most people on Salus Prime considered a fruitcake. Theo Beringer worked in the Fidesian Remembrance Center, a museum dedicated to the history of the twelve planets in the Fides solar system. Beringer was obsessed with the Atlantis ship. Morgan regularly visited his old technical officer below the two-hundred-meter-high, blue-tinted glass pyramid, in the ancient catacombs now used to store historical information. Beringer spent nearly every working hour in his office. He was the man to visit for any human requiring a deeper cultural understanding of the fidesians, but more importantly, had a useful network of colleagues throughout the sphere. A virtual reality figure of a fidesian in traditional dress, tall and thin with green-tinged skin and wispy hair, wearing a multicolored woven robe, appeared on a sheet of glass when he entered the complex. “Welcome to the Remembrance Center. Would you like to take the official tour?” “No, thanks. I’m here to see Theo. I’ll show myself to his office.” The figure steepled her fingers and bowed her head. “Have a pleasant day.” So far Morgan’s day had been far from pleasant. He spent most of it drafting personal letters to the families of the Orbital Forty victims. Some thought it an unfashionable thing to do, but he thought the old tradition carried more meaning than an electronic message. A group of thirty human, fidesian and fidian children in their matching yellow uniforms moved around the eroded statues of mythical creatures and tall glass display cabinets containing excavated artifacts, tapping notes into their smart-screens. Morgan headed for the underground display of cave paintings and basic tools, created thousands of years ago during the fidesians’ version of the Stone Age. Fidesians took their culture seriously and this place was as much a temple as a museum. Morgan stood on the electronic ramp and cruised down the catacombs at a gentle speed while a neutrally accented female voice talked through an overhead speaker in Salus Common, the hybrid language used by the fidesians and humans, which was thankfully dominated by English. She was explaining the evolution of the species from cave-dwelling hunters to sophisticated artists and explorers. The tour led left at the bottom of the ramp, along a clean brightly lit tunnel. Morgan headed right, past the vaults containing the non-displayed items and shelves of historical documents. Beringer’s office was at the end of the smooth stone corridor. He loved being close to the detail, he always did, and predicted a lot of the horan moves accurately during the Century War. Morgan raised his hand to the authentication pad outside Beringer’s door. Before his palm connected with the black glass plate, the door slid open with a pneumatic hiss. Beringer relaxed back in his antique brown leather chair and smoothed the sides of his wiry gray hair. Light brown scrolls were piled on the left-hand side of his desk. A monitor and touch pad sat on the right-hand side. Three slabs of stone, with ancient symbols chipped into their sides, leaned against the back wall of his brightly lit office. “Admiral Morgan, what can I do for you today?” Beringer said and peered at him with his light green eyes. He’d instructed the medical support unit to create him a new pair of fidian eyes after losing his sight due to age-related macular degeneration. Morgan still couldn’t get used to them. He’d engineered himself to be a hybrid, but the fidesians and fidians loved him for it. “The Atlantis ship’s back. I’ve been tasked with destroying or capturing it.” Beringer’s eyes widened. He bolted forward, tapped on the touch pad and swung his monitor to face Morgan. “The myth becomes reality. One of my team found this in a cave on the other side of the planet. Take a look at this.” Morgan squinted at the image of a carving on a wall of rock, brightened by artificial light. He recognized the shape of the Atlantis ship instantly. Boltan, the fidesian god of destruction, stood next to it and held a sphere. “How old is that?” Morgan said. “At least four thousand years. I’ve collected every single known occurrence and still can’t work out a pattern. It might help if I had access to the horan records.” “I’m sure you know a man who can get them,” Morgan said. He sat on the plastic chair in front of Beringer. “That’s the reason I’m here. I need your help.” “Why come to me? You’re an admiral with powerful resources at your fingertips.” Morgan sighed. “You’d think so, but it doesn’t work like that. I’m no more than a desk jockey nowadays, but finding the ship can get me back into active service. I’m putting a specialist team together, but it’s top secret.” “What kind of top secret?” Beringer said, raising an eyebrow, creasing the wrinkled skin on his forehead. “The type that Kenwright doesn’t know about?” “You know me too well. I’ve recruited Carson Mach and tasked him with putting together a crew.” “Mach?” Beringer laughed and continued to tap his spindly fingers against the smart-screen. “I can see why you need to keep this under wraps. I’m surprised he hasn’t drunk himself to death.” “He’ll survive longer than all of us. I want you to join him. If he finds the ship, we need to get our hands on the tech and harness it.” Beringer stopped typing and looked up. “I gave that kind of work up years ago. The only man I know who can do it and would join the crew is Kingsley Babcock.” Morgan shook his head. “You can’t be serious? I can take the heat for a secret mission using Mach. Babcock would kill any chance I have of returning to the fight.” “It was twenty years ago. Most people have forgotten about it.” “The marshal won’t forget the hundred thousand casualties after he hacked into the vestan artefact.” “He didn’t know about the virus,” Beringer said. “Marshal Kenwright should remember who programmed the AI-driven advanced combat systems that tipped the war in our favor.” “People always remember the screwups. I can pay him well and the fleet won’t know a thing.” Morgan sat back and thought for a moment. Babcock was the finest technical mind in the CW. He escaped into exile after unleashing the virus while trying to gain a better understanding of vestan technology. If Mach captured the Atlantis ship, Babcock would be the best man for the job. “The problem is locating him. He could be anywhere in the Salus Sphere.” Beringer bowed his head. “I’m still in touch with him. He keeps his finger on the CW pulse and we share information on the Atlantis ship. If anyone can track it or predict a behavior model, it’s Kingsley.” The revelation came as no surprise. Morgan knew Beringer and Babcock were tight during their time in the fleet. Kindred spirits with insatiable curiosities and a shared obsession about the Atlantis ship. Neither of them ever accepted the myth. “Can you contact him and get his agreement?” “Only if you promise he doesn’t end up in a Summanun cell.” “You have my word on it,” Morgan said. “Please do it as soon as you can. I’ll communicate with Mach when you give me Babcock’s coordinates.” Beringer smiled. “I’ve already messaged him.” Morgan’s screen flashed. He glanced down at the display. “I’ve got to go. I’ll trust you to explain the situation.” Morgan stood and left the office, pleased that he had a team in place that was capable of finding and hacking the Atlantis ship. If they could survive an initial meeting. Morgan left the Remembrance Center and climbed into a transport pod. Operations had messaged him, requesting his presence in the center. Horan destroyers were on the move. “Command center, please.” The pod whined through the apartment blocks at the western end of the base. Morgan gazed at the sun reflecting off the shimmering glass structures. They replaced the older traditional-style housing that the humans first built on arrival in the Salus Sphere. Confident that he’d put together the best combination to track and hack the Atlantis ship, it now meant he could focus on the horan threat. They would already know about the Orbital Forty and be carefully monitoring CW movements. The pod stopped him outside the command center block. Morgan returned inside and took the elevator to the eighth floor. As usual, they would report events to him and communicate strategy, and expect him to play nodding dog. But he’d already decided to start taking a more proactive role. Organizing the secret mission had reinvigorated him and stiffened his resolve to get back amongst the action. If the horans were planning an attack, the CW needed combat-experienced officers to lead the fight. Morgan approached the central operations desk. “Update me on the movements.” A young fidian lieutenant pointed to a large screen on the left, monitoring the noncombat zone around the sphere and a small area of the Axis territory beyond. “A group of five horan destroyers have gathered on their frontier, a light-year from Retsina.” “We think they’re trying to take advantage of the wormhole attack.” Morgan gazed at the screens. It didn’t make sense that the horans would use such an unsophisticated plan to probe with five destroyers. They would realize that a heavily armed CW ship would be heading for the area to bolster the frontier. “What formation are they using?” Morgan said. “They’re extended across an AU, orbiting a series of dwarf planets.” “The captain’s ordering four more of our destroyers to the area.” Morgan shook his head. “Tell them to stand down. Horans wouldn’t send five destroyers into the Salus Sphere. Keep me updated if you see any more buildup.” “But, sir,” the lieutenant said. “The captain has authority—” “From now on, any CW movements come through me. We may be entering a period of war, and another enemy has returned. Do you have a problem with that?” “No, sir, but I’ll have to speak to the captain. It’s going against his direct orders. ” “I’ll speak to the Ops command and let them know the new approval line.” Morgan scanned the monitoring screens. The horans had a reason for being in that location. They had a reason for doing everything. This wasn’t just a case of waiting for the CW to commit their resources to a search and taking advantage. If they weren’t planning an attack, their presence could only mean one thing. They were also looking for the Atlantis ship. The consequence of the horans finding it and harnessing the tech sent a shiver down Morgan’s spine. Mach’s mission had taken on an even greater significance.

Chapter 7

Mach was sitting in the captain’s chair. He gazed at the two JPs maneuvering the holocontrols. Wet behind the ears, inexperienced, and would likely crumble if the shit hit the fan. The Vekron Valley had been quiet so far, but he’d expected that while on their light drive. During the first part of the journey, Mach rested in the sleeping bays and left them to monitor the ship during the L-jump. He busied himself and read as much information as he could find on the Atlantis ship. Disappointingly, most were Salus network posts by conspiracy theorists. He needed to find a technical expert who had a real interest in the alleged myth. Danick and Lassea changed to the shuttle’s fusion motors as they approached the Valta asteroid belt, telling Mach they were only half an AU to Summanus. This was a prime hijack zone. Ships were forced to slow in order to navigate through without taking significant impacts. One of the console screens let out a high electronic beep. Danick peered down and quickly turned. “We’ve got five unidentified ships. Four klicks away and heading in our direction, Captain.” “You can drop the rank now,” Mach said. “I stopped playing military man years ago.” “Did you hear me? Five ships!” Mach smiled back at his panic-stricken face. As predicted, the JPs would be tested and would prove either way if they were suitable for the mission. If they failed to come through this minor problem, he’d need to find a good pilot from the prison. “What do you want us to do?” Lassea said. The Phalanx-E provided a nice target for pirates. Mach would’ve been disappointed if pirates didn’t take the bait. No visible weapons and the possibility of ransoming a dignitary, how could they not decide to take a bite? “Keep at full speed and head for the closest part of the belt,” Mach said. “Follow my instructions and you’ll get out of this in one piece.” “We should’ve known,” Danick said. “The AI—” “Screw the AI.” Mach stood and walked to the console. Five green dots, without the standard CW ship codes above, flashed on the edge of the screen. Two split in either direction; one maintained a course directly behind them—the classic pincer movement of pirate fighters. They were gaining on the Phalanx-E. “We’ll be in the belt in a minute,” Lassea said. “I need to slow us.” “Hold your nerve and take her in,” Mach said. He watched the monitor. Two fighters headed below them on the starboard side, two high on port. “Let’s find out just how much they want us.” Lassea thrust to port and passed between the first two asteroids. Danick leaned in his seat and winced as they narrowly avoided the huge piece of rock on their starboard side. The way ahead looked impassable, but it always did because of the different sizes and orbits. “Commonwealth ship,” a voice crackled on the intergalactic distress frequency. Mach loved how the pirates abused the channel for their holdups. “Return to the valley or we fire. You can make this easy on yourselves if you just give up now.” “What do we reply?” Danick said. “Nothing,” Mach said. “Maintain your speed and head for the middle of the belt.” “We’ll get hit if we don’t thrust,” Lassea said. “It’s too dense.” A small rock bashed against the side of the Phalanx-E and the cockpit juddered. Mach grabbed the arm of his chair to maintain balance. “These E classes have five times the heavy armor as a pirate fighter.” “We can’t take hits from asteroids and lasers.” “Have faith in CW design,” Mach said, enjoying watching the flustered two young officers out of their comfort zone. If they were coming along, this was only a starter. “If you want to return to your comfy apartments on Fides Prime, follow exactly what I say.” Danick glanced down at the tracking monitor. “They’re almost on top of us.” “Commonwealth ship,” the voice crackled again. “This is your final chance.” Mach configured the distress frequency on his smart-screen and raised it. “Give it your best, shitbird.” A rock bounced off the side of the Phalanx-E. The ship vibrated and something dropped to the floor behind Mach. An alarm repeatedly bleeped. Lassea gasped. “Our port thruster’s gone. I need to reduce our speed.” A red laser zipped past the front window and hit an asteroid. Tiny fragments of rock chipped away into a small cloud of dust. “You see that?” Mach said. “They ain’t gonna hurt us. I want you to head directly for that asteroid and thrust to starboard to hit it side on.” Danick spun and gave Mach a wild-eyed glare. “You’ve got to be kidding me?” “Not in the slightest,” Mach said. “We’re going to play a game of skillion.” Lassea set a course for the asteroid and glanced over her shoulder. “You want to knock it out of its trajectory and disturb the others around it?” “Now we’re getting somewhere. The ship can take it. The pirates can’t.” The shuttle jolted. Mach knew the pirates would score a hit eventually, but they were using scare tactics. It served no purpose to destroy the Phalanx-E. The pirates were banking on the pilots to surrender. If Mach wasn’t here, they probably already would have. Half a klick from the asteroid, only slightly smaller than their ship, Lassea engaged the starboard thruster and they spun on their axis, positioning the heavy side armor toward it. Mach checked the monitor again. The pirates had closed right up and clustered behind them. The heat traces from their weapons registered at regular intervals. The brother and sister held hands and braced. Mach held the arms of his chair and hoped for a decent bounce. The density of the asteroid belt thinned half a klick away and they’d enter Summanus’ space zone, safe from the pirates. A laser hit their underside and rocked Mach out of his chair. He held his breath. The shuttle slammed into the side of the asteroid and the structure groaned. An array of alarms beeped on the console. Danick and Lassea frantically spun their holocontrols to set the shuttle back on course. “Put the rear camera on-screen,” Mach said. Danick nodded and manipulated a floating green cube on his left. The top screen flicked from status indicators and measurements to a view from their stern. They had managed to knock the asteroid into a new orbit. It crashed against a smaller one and sent it hurtling into others. Mach glanced down at the tracking monitor. The pirates split in different directions away from the shuttle. One disappeared. A burst of fire erupted behind a large asteroid. Parts of a fighter scattered into space, colliding with smaller rocks. Mach continued to survey the monitor. The remaining fighters continued away, but he decided to keep his eye on them. He knew they often used this tactic as a ruse to launch another assault. Lassea puffed her cheeks. “I don’t think we can afford to take another hit. The armor’s down to ten percent effectiveness and the thruster’s going to need repairing.” “Keep switched on,” Mach said. “Rule number one: put your biggest strength against their biggest weakness. They didn’t have our range or integrity. Rule number two: never surrender unless you want your throats cut.” Danick and Lassea ignored him and continued to fiddle with the controls. He was confident they got the message. Summanus was a living hell for most of its residents. The Commonwealth used it as a prison planet, because nobody wanted to live there. Dark angry clouds constantly filled the chilly skies. Rain lashed down incessantly and bolts of lightning regularly crashed against the ground. Mach spent six months locked up in the damned place during his early years as a freelancer, falsely accused of gun-running and with a fine he couldn’t meet until one of its recent inmates helped him and bought his freedom. Ernesto Sanchez paid Mach out, ironically in exchange for doing a spell of gun-running through the noncombat zone. Easy work and they built up a good relationship. Ernie was imprisoned last month, accused of killing two lactern diplomats while escaping the local security droids after a deal went bad. His advanced knowledge of CW and Axis weapons made him ideal for the crew, and Mach could finally return the favor. Two drones zipped through the clouds that shrouded the planet, and approached. They both locked their motion torpedoes on the Phalanx-E. “You have failed to automatically authenticate. Please identify yourselves,” the monotone voice said through the open CW channel. “We’re here on authority of Admiral Morgan. This is JP Danick. My copilot is JP Lassea. We’re under the command of Captain Mach.” Good, Mach thought. They were already starting to think on their feet. Despite not having the quintuplets to handshake and confirm a landing position, Danick used the weight of Morgan as leverage. The prison security wouldn’t dare go against an admiral from Fides Prime and impose the non-CW approved taxes. The drone didn’t respond. Mach knew it would be replaying the message back to flight control, and guessed they’d be in pointless debate before coming to the predictable conclusion that the Phalanx-E would be permitted to land. Mach twisted an atomic blue capsule between his fingers. He considered swallowing it for a brief moment. Although it provided an unbeatable rush and quickened his thinking, buying out a prisoner was a mundane routine. It also had hallucinogenic properties when mixed with alcohol, which proved handy in certain situations. He slipped it back into his breast pocket. “You are free to use bay five,” the drone said over the speaker. “We will escort you down.” Coordinates flashed across the console screen. Mach rolled his eyes. Summanus was king of officiousness in the Salus Sphere. “Thank you,” Lassea said and smiled across at her brother. “We’re coming in for landing.” The shuttle descended through the black clouds and rocked around in the tropospheric turbulence. Lightning flashed across the sky and rain pelted against the cockpit window. Bright lights formed a square below them. The perimeter of the prison. Mach remembered the electronic ring they placed around his neck when being admitted. If an inmate attempted to escape and passed the outer boundary, the ring automatically tightened around their neck for every meter they went beyond. Thirty meters led to strangulation. They had a different type for every species. Lassea thrust and the Phalanx-E bumped against solid ground. The side door slid open and cool air rushed inside. Mach stood and wrapped his collar up. “You two wait here. I’ll be half an hour.” “One of us can come with you,” Danick said. “I think I’ll be all right,” Mach said. These twins had potential, but it was still early days. He reminded himself that he was once a young green officer, wanting to impress but lacking in experience. “We’re going to a local bar tonight. Get some food into your guts.” “We don’t drink,” Lassea said. Mach raised his eyebrows. “We’ll see about that.” He turned and headed out into the darkness. Rain splattered against Mach’s head and he tucked his neck against the back of his collar. Thunder rumbled overhead and a bolt of lightning forked across the sky, silhouetting the distant mountains. The imposing square gray concrete structure of the prison, lined with hundreds of security lights, lay directly in front. He splashed across the landing strip, past two old rectangular supply shuttles, and headed for the entrance. It was a smart place to build a prison. Anyone who escaped would end up in a bigger kind of hell if they avoided being choked to death. A guard with a bushy beard opened the door as Mach neared the entrance. He jogged the last few meters, nodded his appreciation to the guard and swept back his soaked hair. “Why has Admiral Morgan sent you?” a stern-looking fidian woman, dressed in a black warden’s uniform, said from behind the reception desk. “He didn’t send me, but I have his authority,” Mach said. “I’m here to buy out one of your inmates.” “Who do you want?” Mach knew the price would double if he told her. “I need some crew. If one of your people could give me a guided tour…” “I can’t waive the extra ten percent without the admiral’s approval.” “Do you want me to message him and give him your details?” The fidian leaned over her desk and scowled. “I’m letting you off with the landing tax. If you want this to be quick, you’ll pay freeworlder prices.” “Didn’t you see the CW shuttle outside?” “Didn’t you forget your authentication quintuplets? You can go through the official process and spend two days here. I’ve got all the time in the Salus Sphere.” “Fair enough,” Mach said. The staff always skimmed and this guard was an experienced player. “Let’s get this over with. I want to get out of this shithole.” She gave him a lingering glare and pushed a solid white ring across the desk. “Confirm you have credit.” Mach wondered if the weather had taken over the guard’s mind. She could’ve been replaced by an AI-drive cyborg with more personality. He placed his wrist through the ring and a green light on top of it beeped. The guard nodded toward a squat bald human partner, who stood by a thick internal steel door. He swiped his security pass against the pad and the door to the prison block clanked open. “This way, please,” the squat guard said. Following the guard through another security door that led to the cells, Mach peered along the brightly lit ten-meter-wide corridor at the light blue walls and shiny red floor, polished every day by prisoners. Nothing had changed in twenty years on A-wing. At the end, two more corridors split off at right angles, giving the prison building a huge T-shape when viewed from above. B-wing and solitary confinement, the latter housing the most dangerous and disruptive inmates. One hundred metallic doors lined either side of A-wing. Each had a small transparent viewing window and a digital display below it, giving the inmate’s name, fine and period of incarceration. “Are you looking for anything in particular?” the guard said. “A human. Nobody who’s been in here for more than a few months,” Mach said, trying to narrow the parameters for a quick find. He felt sure the miserable guard at the desk watched and listened through the security feed, ready to increase the price on the digital display of anyone he named directly. “I’d rather not have anyone from the defense force. Too institutionalized.” The guard nodded. “We’ve got a few options. Follow me.” He led Mach to a cell halfway along the corridor. “Loppy Wood. He’s been here six weeks. Caught smuggling on Salus Gamma.” Mach gazed through the window at the thin man, dressed in the prison’s green coverall, who lay on his bed in the corner of the cramped sparse cell. He rubbed his chin, feigning interest. “He looks a bit on the skinny side. Are you starving them?” “I have to eat the same meals,” the guard said and slapped his bulging gut. “Do I look malnourished?” “Not at all, you’re fine specimen. This one isn’t quite right. Can I see more?” The guard continued along the corridor and showed him a few more pirates and smugglers. Mach held his nerve. Not that many inmates would fit his requirements. Finally, after being shown two more cells on B-wing, they came to Ernie’s. His fine was two million eros. The right amount for a double homicide of lactern dignitaries. Ernie sat against the wall with forearms resting on his knees, the coverall hiding the Fides Gamma animals tattooed all over his body. Mach hadn’t seen him clean shaven with a buzz cut before. He always had long black shaggy hair and a thick handlebar mustache. “Had much trouble from this one?” Mach asked. “He’s only been out of solitary for two days. Smashed up two lacterns in the showers after they attacked him.” “Sounds ideal for what I want. I’ll take this one.” The guard shrugged. “There isn’t any more that fit your description. Personally I’d take Loppy.” “He doesn’t suit my needs. Prepare the transfer.” Mach turned and glanced along the opposite corridor. He still needed another crew member and wondered if any of his acquaintances were locked up. “How many have you got in solitary?” “Ten at the moment. Mostly horans.” “What about the others?” “A lactern spy and a real mean bitch serving life for killing twelve high-ranking officers.” Mach had read about Adira’s arrest last month, but her location was kept secret. She was exactly the kind of person he needed. A ruthless CW assassin, considered the best in the Salus Sphere. He guessed she had taken the fall for superior officers. Adira was too careful to make that kind of move without being under orders. “What’s her price?” “You can’t buy her out. Nobody can.” “Are you sure we can’t come to some arrangement?” Mach said and gave the guard his best smile. “I can make a direct payment if you help me out.” The guard sighed. “Sorry. I’d end up replacing her if I let her go.” “I understand. I’ll take…” Mach squinted at the display below the cell window, keeping up the act in case of any complications back at reception. “Ernesto Sanchez, and be on my way.” Adira would be leaving Summanus on the Phalanx-E. If they wouldn’t let Mach pay for her, he had little option but to bust her out. Once he had Ernie Sanchez safely out of the building, they needed a plan.

Chapter 8

A gust of wind blew across the dark landing strip, spraying ice-cold rain against Mach’s face. He jogged toward the Phalanx-E and the side door opened, throwing out a shaft of light into the gloom. Sanchez followed, looking more like his normal self, dressed in a dark brown leather jacket and trousers made from balto hide. Mach’s boot splashed through puddles on the floor and he sped up the ramp. Lassea worked at the back of the shuttle on the damaged interior, running diagnostics through a pad balanced on her lap. Danick sat at the cockpit and turned in his chair. “Did you get what you came—” His eyes widened as Sanchez’s large frame entered the shuttle. Sanchez glanced around its dull interior and shook his head. “They don’t make ’em like they used to.” “Let me introduce you to Sanchez, Ernesto Sanchez,” Mach said. “He’s officially part of our crew.” Lassea placed down the pad, approached the big man, and slowly extended a hand as if placing it into a predator’s open mouth. “Nice to meet you, Mr. Ernesto Sanchez.” Sanchez smiled down at her, flashing his two gold front teeth. “A sprog from the fleet, eh? What’s this crazy bastard had you doing? Oh, and call me Sanchez.” “We’re here to help him find the Atlantis ship,” Lassea said. Silence filled the shuttle. Sanchez’s smile dropped. He turned to Mach. “You busted me out to search for a myth?” “A myth doesn’t destroy an orbital station,” Mach said. “I’ve seen the footage. It exists and could make us both rich, far richer than running some rusty guns.” “How are we supposed to capture it in this thing? It doesn’t even have basic weapons.” “That’s for us to work out. But we have a more immediate priority. We need more crew members… I want to break Adira out.” “Adira? She’s in max security solitary, you know that, right?” Mach shrugged. “I’m sure we can put our heads together.” “Why do you want her, of all people? I heard she once tried to remove your testicles from your body with a steak knife.” Lassea eyed Mach with a hint of alarm. “That’s just her take on a romantic evening. But seriously, Sanchez, we’re not going anywhere until we have her onboard. You know this place better than I; I need you, man.” Sanchez sighed and rubbed his thick hand across his chin, the rough skin of his fingers scraping across the stubble, the sound rasping like glass-paper against wood. “I’ll help you break her out and stay with you for a month to find this Moby Dick of a ship—on your dime, but not a day longer. Oh, and I want fifty percent of any proceeds.” “Fifty?” Mach said, incredulous. “Twenty-five. I’ve got costs and a better ship to arrange. I’m on the favor of a minor CW dignitary. I don’t have an endless budget here.” “Forty,” Sanchez said. “Thirty, and that’s my final offer. Any more than that, and it’d be cost effective for me to have you go back inside.” “Fine, I can live with that,” Sanchez said with a satisfied grin. He spat in his hand and held it forward. Mach shook it, the warm saliva smudging against his palm. Danick joined them in the midsection and stood next to his sister. “We can’t be involved with this. Everyone in the Fides system knows about Adira’s murders.” “You’re here to follow my orders,” Mach said. “Download the prison plans from the central database and get them up on screen.” The JPs stood looking at him like a pair of lost puppies. Sanchez moved behind them and wrapped his arms around their shoulders. “You better listen to the man. I’ve seen him in a bad mood, and let me tell you, it ain’t a pretty sight.” Mach loved Sanchez’s style of passive-aggressive persuasion, but his other skills got him on this particular mission. “I’ll have them up for you in two minutes,” Lassea said and brushed Sanchez’s hand off her shoulder. “For the record, I don’t like being touched.” Sanchez laughed and sat on the soft leather captain’s chair. “Fides Primes and their stiff culture. You need to relax a little.” Danick and Lassea sat at the cockpit controls and worked the holocontrols to get the required information. If Mach could find a way out, that didn’t involve passing reception, he was confident of springing Adira. “Did Adira really try to kill you?” Lassea said. “It was a long time ago.” Mach thought back to the encounter. Apparently he was the only person alive in the Salus Sphere to survive one of her attempts. “I’ve spoken to her since, in a sense. There’s no hard feelings.” “I’d be careful,” Sanchez said. “If she had a contract on you, I wouldn’t put it past her to cash in at the first available opportunity. I would.” Mach shook his head. “It’s over, trust me. Get what tools you need to break off her security neck-ring. I’ve already thought of a way to get inside.” Sanchez grunted and heaved himself from the chair. He walked toward the back of the shuttle and pulled open the hatches on the unbuckled left-hand side. “I pulled in a favor from one of my friends at HQ,” Lassea said. The 3D technical designs for the prison flashed across the left screen above the cockpit. Mach studied the designs. They had to have emergency exits in case of a fire. The CW was health and safety mad, and wouldn’t have only one point of access. He spread his finger and thumb on the console and zoomed in on the solitary wing. The wall thinned on a one-meter section at the end of the corridor. He checked B-wing and it had the same feature. False walls that could be blasted through, or brought down by a group of angry horans at full sprint. It initially seemed convenient, but he remembered his time in prison. Armed guards stood in front of the walls whenever cells opened and inmates were strictly controlled. Mach’s suspicion proved correct. He now had a way in and a way out. The last thing required was access to the cells. For that he’d need a security card. “Are you two ready for a drink?” he said to Danick and Lassea. “We’ve already told you—” Danick said. “Start to live a little. You’ll appreciate these little downtimes in a week or two.” Lassea disabled the holocontrols and stood. Sanchez appeared from the back of the shuttle, holding a cylinder-shaped multipurpose electro-tool. “Did somebody mention a drink?” Mach nodded. “We’re going to find a security swipe.” A small group of buildings clustered around an apartment block half a klick from the shuttle. Mach headed for their dim lights and caught up on the latest Salus gossip with Sanchez. All of it was standard. The outer planets expected war. Pirates were still a problem, and there was still good money to be made smuggling. Danick and Lassea trudged along beside them, shielding their faces from the rain that swept across the road. Prison staff and a few crazy people who decided to make Summanus their home lived in apartments. A CW defense force station, a bar stocked with only basic goods, and a derelict clothing shop spread around its base. Staff and visitors frequented the bar. It was an easier spot to find an off-duty guard to target. Failing that, they’d have to visit a few apartments and find an unoccupied one to burgle. A crackling red light hung above a set of steel doors. Not the most welcoming place, but it suited the rest of the planet. People nicknamed it The Bar With No Name. Mach entered and glanced around. Two crimson-colored horans sat at a table near the front, in frayed old black battle dress. Both turned and stared through their lizard yellow eyes. He continued past them and headed straight for the long filthy gray metallic bar at the end of the room. Two guards sat on stools and leaned over their drinks. A single fidian, dressed in a blue robe, stood behind the bar and rested his hands on the electric drink pumps. “Take a seat in the corner,” Mach said to Sanchez. “I’ll get us all a star-chaser.” “You got it,” Sanchez said, leading the JPs to a circular table on the right-hand side. “What can I get you?” the fidian said. “Four chasers, please.” Mach held his smart-screen over the shiny black payment plate. The fidian registered the order on its console and the plate bleeped. Mach glanced at the two guards from the corner of his eye. Neither had a security swipe attached to their belts, but they might still be carrying it. The fidian filled four medium-sized glasses with blue liquid and pushed them across the sticky metal surface of the bar. He clasped his hands around the glasses and headed for the table. A star-chaser was a strong alcoholic drink made from fruit farmed on Fides Delta. For a seasoned drinker, it hit the spot. Carson smiled at the thought of Lassea and Danick being knocked sideways for an hour or so. It didn’t matter, he’d have hatched his plan by then, and they’d have time to recover. He placed the glasses down on the table. Sanchez immediately grabbed one and took a large gulp. He exhaled in satisfaction and held the drink in front of his face. “I’ve been waiting weeks to have another one of these.” Danick and Lassea pulled their glasses across the table. They looked at each other as if Carson had just asked them to down a cup of cold sick. “It’ll put hairs on your chest,” Sanchez said. Lassea narrowed her eyes and sipped from the top of the glass. She closed one eye and winced. Mach remembered his first drink and smiled. At least she didn’t pretend to enjoy it like he did, in a vain attempt to impress the old dogs at the fleet bar on Fides Prime. Danick met Mach’s gaze, rolled his eyes and took a large mouthful. He covered his mouth, swallowed hard, and squeezed his eyes tightly shut. “That’s the way to do it,” Mach said. He downed half of his chaser and enjoyed the burning sensation at the back of his throat. One of the guards, a young human with sandy hair, looked over at the group. Carson gestured to the spare seat at the table. “You’re welcome to join us.” The guard sighed, hopped off his stool, and brought over his drink. He sat next to Mach. “What are you doing on Summanus?” Mach smiled. “Just came here to see the sights.” “Yeah, right. You look the sort who buys crew.” “You got me. I’ve just bought him out,” Mach said and nodded in Sanchez’s direction. “How long have you worked here?” “Two years. I’m transferring out in a few months. Had enough of the place.” “That’s what you all say,” Sanchez said. “I bet I’ll come back here in twenty years and still find you slumped at the bar.” “Not a chance,” the guard said. “I’m out of here. This place has a way of bringing you down.” “I can imagine,” Mach said, detecting a hint of a slur in the guard’s words. “Can I get you another drink?” “Sure, I’ll have a nebula bomb.” Mach returned to the bar and ordered. While the fidian mixed the orange-colored drink, he slipped the atomic blue capsule out of his breast pocket and pulled it apart. A small part of the white powder inside sprinkled onto the muddy footprint-stained brown plastic floor. He rubbed it with his boot and cupped the two sections in his hand. The fidian handed Mach the drink. He briefly lowered it, emptied the contents of the capsule inside, and sloshed the drink around, ensuring it dissolved any traces of powder on the insides of the glass. Sanchez watched him approach and gave a quick wink. They’d used this technique before. The guard downed his current drink and wrapped his fingers around the nebula bomb. “Thanks. Next one’s on me.” “There’s no need. Enjoy it.” Lassea and Danick eyed Mach suspiciously, but they didn’t need to know what was going on. He sat next to the guard and waited. The two horans ordered more drinks. They would provide the route into the prison after he got the pass. “I’m not feeling so good,” Danick said. “Do you mind if we go back to the shuttle?” “You haven’t finished your chaser,” Sanchez said. “Mind if I have the honor?” “Sure,” Danick said. He stood and pressed a hand against the table to steady himself, clearly affected by only half of the drink. Lassea paused for a moment. Mach gestured his head toward the entrance. She downed her drink, grimaced, and left with her brother. That was another tick in the box for Lassea. “Drink up,” Mach said to the guard. “I’ll get you another.” “I’m happy if you’re paying.” The guard got to the bottom of his nebula bomb and his eyelids drooped. He sat back in his chair and frowned at Mach. “Who are you?” “He’s gone,” Sanchez said. “How many capsules did you put in?” “Just the one. I think it’s time we gave him a breath of fresh air.” They grabbed an arm each and propped the guard up. The fidian barman looked across and shook his head. Mach wrapped the guard’s thin arm around his shoulder. “Just taking him outside to clear his head.” The guard continued to babble. His speech became unrecognizable and a line of saliva dangled from his bottom lip. Sanchez propped him up on the other side. The guard’s dangling feet scraped across the floor as they dragged him outside. They carried the guard around the side of the tavern and leaned him against the side of its rough block wall. Mach patted down his pockets and felt a square object in the front left of his cargo pants. He fished his hand inside and produced a security swipe. “Bingo,” Mach said. “Let’s get him back inside. We don’t want him to die of hypothermia out here.” Mach’s breath plumed in the frigid air. “What’s our next move?” Sanchez said, showing no effect of the cold weather. “We’ll just be kept overnight for a disturbance, right?” “Yeah. They’ll search you, though.” “No problem. Can you get your tools in?” “Does a balto shit in the woods?” Mach forced the swipe against his right forearm. It punctured through a section of artificial skin and he slipped the swipe between two of his cybernetic muscles. He didn’t bother asking Sanchez where he concealed his multipurpose tool. They dragged the delirious guard back to the table and placed him on a chair. He slumped forward and rested his face in his hands. Mach had never seen an atomic blue have such a powerful effect, but he’d never tried after a skinful of booze. “Ready to have a little fun with those two horans?” Mach said. “I’ll take the left one, the ugly one.” The horans placed their glasses on the table and watched as Mach and Sanchez approached. Mach picked up the closest horan’s glass. “Mind if I finish your drink?” “Give it back, you fool,” the horan croaked. The other horan stood and hissed. Mach threw the contents of the glass into his face, knowing they couldn’t resist a challenge once somebody compromised their honor. Liquid dribbled off the horan’s chin. The one seated to the left sprang up, knocking the metal table over. Glass shattered across the floor. The fidian behind the bar gestured at his smart-screen and ducked. Sanchez, true to form, didn’t wait for a seven-foot-tall horan to get in the first strike. He leaped forward and thrust his shoulder into the horan’s chest, sending them both skidding to the floor. The horan facing Mach swung its scaly, clawed hand. Mach ducked, the swipe glancing off the top of his head. Mach balled his fist, gritted his teeth, and slammed an uppercut into the horan’s stomach. It roared and smashed an elbow against his left shoulder. Pain shot through Mach’s joint. He jumped up and forced the top of his head against the horan’s snout. The alien staggered back and a trickle of purple blood poured from its nostril. Sanchez sat on the other horan’s chest. It bucked underneath him as he rained down punches. Mach’s opponent twisted off a metal chair leg and held the jagged part forward. “You won’t live to see your home world, human.” The metal doors flung open. Two dark blue uniformed CWDF soldiers entered, lasers raised, shifting their aim between Mach, Sanchez, and the two horans. Sanchez rolled free and held up his arms. Mach raised his too, and with a panting breath said, “We don’t want any trouble.” One of the soldiers, an unusually stocky fidesian, moved around to the back of Mach while keeping the laser pointed at his head. “You come to Summanus and start a bar fight, you’re gonna find it.” The soldier pulled a cuff block from his belt and stuffed Mach’s wrists through the gaps. The cuffs automatically tightened around his wrists. “Where are you taking me?” Mach said. “You can cool down in solitary for the night. I want you off the planet in the morning—when we’ve charged your account, of course.” The other soldier cuffed Sanchez. The two men were pushed out of the bar, back into the driving, freezing rain. Mach kept his head down as he was dragged into the blocky Summanus prison. He glanced at Sanchez and shared a minuscule nod of accomplishment.

Chapter 9

A gust of wind blew across the dark landing strip, spraying ice-cold rain against Mach’s face. He jogged toward the Phalanx-E and the side door opened, throwing out a shaft of light into the gloom. Sanchez followed, looking more like his normal self, dressed in a dark brown leather jacket and trousers made from balto hide. Mach’s boot splashed through puddles on the floor and he sped up the ramp. Lassea worked at the back of the shuttle on the damaged interior, running diagnostics through a pad balanced on her lap. Danick sat at the cockpit and turned in his chair. “Did you get what you came—” His eyes widened as Sanchez’s large frame entered the shuttle. Sanchez glanced around its dull interior and shook his head. “They don’t make ’em like they used to.” “Let me introduce you to Sanchez, Ernesto Sanchez,” Mach said. “He’s officially part of our crew.” Lassea placed down the pad, approached the big man, and slowly extended a hand as if placing it into a predator’s open mouth. “Nice to meet you, Mr. Ernesto Sanchez.” Sanchez smiled down at her, flashing his two gold front teeth. “A sprog from the fleet, eh? What’s this crazy bastard had you doing? Oh, and call me Sanchez.” “We’re here to help him find the Atlantis ship,” Lassea said. Silence filled the shuttle. Sanchez’s smile dropped. He turned to Mach. “You busted me out to search for a myth?” “A myth doesn’t destroy an orbital station,” Mach said. “I’ve seen the footage. It exists and could make us both rich, far richer than running some rusty guns.” “How are we supposed to capture it in this thing? It doesn’t even have basic weapons.” “That’s for us to work out. But we have a more immediate priority. We need more crew members… I want to break Adira out.” “Adira? She’s in max security solitary, you know that, right?” Mach shrugged. “I’m sure we can put our heads together.” “Why do you want her, of all people? I heard she once tried to remove your testicles from your body with a steak knife.” Lassea eyed Mach with a hint of alarm. “That’s just her take on a romantic evening. But seriously, Sanchez, we’re not going anywhere until we have her onboard. You know this place better than I; I need you, man.” Sanchez sighed and rubbed his thick hand across his chin, the rough skin of his fingers scraping across the stubble, the sound rasping like glass-paper against wood. “I’ll help you break her out and stay with you for a month to find this Moby Dick of a ship—on your dime, but not a day longer. Oh, and I want fifty percent of any proceeds.” “Fifty?” Mach said, incredulous. “Twenty-five. I’ve got costs and a better ship to arrange. I’m on the favor of a minor CW dignitary. I don’t have an endless budget here.” “Forty,” Sanchez said. “Thirty, and that’s my final offer. Any more than that, and it’d be cost effective for me to have you go back inside.” “Fine, I can live with that,” Sanchez said with a satisfied grin. He spat in his hand and held it forward. Mach shook it, the warm saliva smudging against his palm. Danick joined them in the midsection and stood next to his sister. “We can’t be involved with this. Everyone in the Fides system knows about Adira’s murders.” “You’re here to follow my orders,” Mach said. “Download the prison plans from the central database and get them up on screen.” The JPs stood looking at him like a pair of lost puppies. Sanchez moved behind them and wrapped his arms around their shoulders. “You better listen to the man. I’ve seen him in a bad mood, and let me tell you, it ain’t a pretty sight.” Mach loved Sanchez’s style of passive-aggressive persuasion, but his other skills got him on this particular mission. “I’ll have them up for you in two minutes,” Lassea said and brushed Sanchez’s hand off her shoulder. “For the record, I don’t like being touched.” Sanchez laughed and sat on the soft leather captain’s chair. “Fides Primes and their stiff culture. You need to relax a little.” Danick and Lassea sat at the cockpit controls and worked the holocontrols to get the required information. If Mach could find a way out, that didn’t involve passing reception, he was confident of springing Adira. “Did Adira really try to kill you?” Lassea said. “It was a long time ago.” Mach thought back to the encounter. Apparently he was the only person alive in the Salus Sphere to survive one of her attempts. “I’ve spoken to her since, in a sense. There’s no hard feelings.” “I’d be careful,” Sanchez said. “If she had a contract on you, I wouldn’t put it past her to cash in at the first available opportunity. I would.” Mach shook his head. “It’s over, trust me. Get what tools you need to break off her security neck-ring. I’ve already thought of a way to get inside.” Sanchez grunted and heaved himself from the chair. He walked toward the back of the shuttle and pulled open the hatches on the unbuckled left-hand side. “I pulled in a favor from one of my friends at HQ,” Lassea said. The 3D technical designs for the prison flashed across the left screen above the cockpit. Mach studied the designs. They had to have emergency exits in case of a fire. The CW was health and safety mad, and wouldn’t have only one point of access. He spread his finger and thumb on the console and zoomed in on the solitary wing. The wall thinned on a one-meter section at the end of the corridor. He checked B-wing and it had the same feature. False walls that could be blasted through, or brought down by a group of angry horans at full sprint. It initially seemed convenient, but he remembered his time in prison. Armed guards stood in front of the walls whenever cells opened and inmates were strictly controlled. Mach’s suspicion proved correct. He now had a way in and a way out. The last thing required was access to the cells. For that he’d need a security card. “Are you two ready for a drink?” he said to Danick and Lassea. “We’ve already told you—” Danick said. “Start to live a little. You’ll appreciate these little downtimes in a week or two.” Lassea disabled the holocontrols and stood. Sanchez appeared from the back of the shuttle, holding a cylinder-shaped multipurpose electro-tool. “Did somebody mention a drink?” Mach nodded. “We’re going to find a security swipe.” A small group of buildings clustered around an apartment block half a klick from the shuttle. Mach headed for their dim lights and caught up on the latest Salus gossip with Sanchez. All of it was standard. The outer planets expected war. Pirates were still a problem, and there was still good money to be made smuggling. Danick and Lassea trudged along beside them, shielding their faces from the rain that swept across the road. Prison staff and a few crazy people who decided to make Summanus their home lived in apartments. A CW defense force station, a bar stocked with only basic goods, and a derelict clothing shop spread around its base. Staff and visitors frequented the bar. It was an easier spot to find an off-duty guard to target. Failing that, they’d have to visit a few apartments and find an unoccupied one to burgle. A crackling red light hung above a set of steel doors. Not the most welcoming place, but it suited the rest of the planet. People nicknamed it The Bar With No Name. Mach entered and glanced around. Two crimson-colored horans sat at a table near the front, in frayed old black battle dress. Both turned and stared through their lizard yellow eyes. He continued past them and headed straight for the long filthy gray metallic bar at the end of the room. Two guards sat on stools and leaned over their drinks. A single fidian, dressed in a blue robe, stood behind the bar and rested his hands on the electric drink pumps. “Take a seat in the corner,” Mach said to Sanchez. “I’ll get us all a star-chaser.” “You got it,” Sanchez said, leading the JPs to a circular table on the right-hand side. “What can I get you?” the fidian said. “Four chasers, please.” Mach held his smart-screen over the shiny black payment plate. The fidian registered the order on its console and the plate bleeped. Mach glanced at the two guards from the corner of his eye. Neither had a security swipe attached to their belts, but they might still be carrying it. The fidian filled four medium-sized glasses with blue liquid and pushed them across the sticky metal surface of the bar. He clasped his hands around the glasses and headed for the table. A star-chaser was a strong alcoholic drink made from fruit farmed on Fides Delta. For a seasoned drinker, it hit the spot. Carson smiled at the thought of Lassea and Danick being knocked sideways for an hour or so. It didn’t matter, he’d have hatched his plan by then, and they’d have time to recover. He placed the glasses down on the table. Sanchez immediately grabbed one and took a large gulp. He exhaled in satisfaction and held the drink in front of his face. “I’ve been waiting weeks to have another one of these.” Danick and Lassea pulled their glasses across the table. They looked at each other as if Carson had just asked them to down a cup of cold sick. “It’ll put hairs on your chest,” Sanchez said. Lassea narrowed her eyes and sipped from the top of the glass. She closed one eye and winced. Mach remembered his first drink and smiled. At least she didn’t pretend to enjoy it like he did, in a vain attempt to impress the old dogs at the fleet bar on Fides Prime. Danick met Mach’s gaze, rolled his eyes and took a large mouthful. He covered his mouth, swallowed hard, and squeezed his eyes tightly shut. “That’s the way to do it,” Mach said. He downed half of his chaser and enjoyed the burning sensation at the back of his throat. One of the guards, a young human with sandy hair, looked over at the group. Carson gestured to the spare seat at the table. “You’re welcome to join us.” The guard sighed, hopped off his stool, and brought over his drink. He sat next to Mach. “What are you doing on Summanus?” Mach smiled. “Just came here to see the sights.” “Yeah, right. You look the sort who buys crew.” “You got me. I’ve just bought him out,” Mach said and nodded in Sanchez’s direction. “How long have you worked here?” “Two years. I’m transferring out in a few months. Had enough of the place.” “That’s what you all say,” Sanchez said. “I bet I’ll come back here in twenty years and still find you slumped at the bar.” “Not a chance,” the guard said. “I’m out of here. This place has a way of bringing you down.” “I can imagine,” Mach said, detecting a hint of a slur in the guard’s words. “Can I get you another drink?” “Sure, I’ll have a nebula bomb.” Mach returned to the bar and ordered. While the fidian mixed the orange-colored drink, he slipped the atomic blue capsule out of his breast pocket and pulled it apart. A small part of the white powder inside sprinkled onto the muddy footprint-stained brown plastic floor. He rubbed it with his boot and cupped the two sections in his hand. The fidian handed Mach the drink. He briefly lowered it, emptied the contents of the capsule inside, and sloshed the drink around, ensuring it dissolved any traces of powder on the insides of the glass. Sanchez watched him approach and gave a quick wink. They’d used this technique before. The guard downed his current drink and wrapped his fingers around the nebula bomb. “Thanks. Next one’s on me.” “There’s no need. Enjoy it.” Lassea and Danick eyed Mach suspiciously, but they didn’t need to know what was going on. He sat next to the guard and waited. The two horans ordered more drinks. They would provide the route into the prison after he got the pass. “I’m not feeling so good,” Danick said. “Do you mind if we go back to the shuttle?” “You haven’t finished your chaser,” Sanchez said. “Mind if I have the honor?” “Sure,” Danick said. He stood and pressed a hand against the table to steady himself, clearly affected by only half of the drink. Lassea paused for a moment. Mach gestured his head toward the entrance. She downed her drink, grimaced, and left with her brother. That was another tick in the box for Lassea. “Drink up,” Mach said to the guard. “I’ll get you another.” “I’m happy if you’re paying.” The guard got to the bottom of his nebula bomb and his eyelids drooped. He sat back in his chair and frowned at Mach. “Who are you?” “He’s gone,” Sanchez said. “How many capsules did you put in?” “Just the one. I think it’s time we gave him a breath of fresh air.” They grabbed an arm each and propped the guard up. The fidian barman looked across and shook his head. Mach wrapped the guard’s thin arm around his shoulder. “Just taking him outside to clear his head.” The guard continued to babble. His speech became unrecognizable and a line of saliva dangled from his bottom lip. Sanchez propped him up on the other side. The guard’s dangling feet scraped across the floor as they dragged him outside. They carried the guard around the side of the tavern and leaned him against the side of its rough block wall. Mach patted down his pockets and felt a square object in the front left of his cargo pants. He fished his hand inside and produced a security swipe. “Bingo,” Mach said. “Let’s get him back inside. We don’t want him to die of hypothermia out here.” Mach’s breath plumed in the frigid air. “What’s our next move?” Sanchez said, showing no effect of the cold weather. “We’ll just be kept overnight for a disturbance, right?” “Yeah. They’ll search you, though.” “No problem. Can you get your tools in?” “Does a balto shit in the woods?” Mach forced the swipe against his right forearm. It punctured through a section of artificial skin and he slipped the swipe between two of his cybernetic muscles. He didn’t bother asking Sanchez where he concealed his multipurpose tool. They dragged the delirious guard back to the table and placed him on a chair. He slumped forward and rested his face in his hands. Mach had never seen an atomic blue have such a powerful effect, but he’d never tried after a skinful of booze. “Ready to have a little fun with those two horans?” Mach said. “I’ll take the left one, the ugly one.” The horans placed their glasses on the table and watched as Mach and Sanchez approached. Mach picked up the closest horan’s glass. “Mind if I finish your drink?” “Give it back, you fool,” the horan croaked. The other horan stood and hissed. Mach threw the contents of the glass into his face, knowing they couldn’t resist a challenge once somebody compromised their honor. Liquid dribbled off the horan’s chin. The one seated to the left sprang up, knocking the metal table over. Glass shattered across the floor. The fidian behind the bar gestured at his smart-screen and ducked. Sanchez, true to form, didn’t wait for a seven-foot-tall horan to get in the first strike. He leaped forward and thrust his shoulder into the horan’s chest, sending them both skidding to the floor. The horan facing Mach swung its scaly, clawed hand. Mach ducked, the swipe glancing off the top of his head. Mach balled his fist, gritted his teeth, and slammed an uppercut into the horan’s stomach. It roared and smashed an elbow against his left shoulder. Pain shot through Mach’s joint. He jumped up and forced the top of his head against the horan’s snout. The alien staggered back and a trickle of purple blood poured from its nostril. Sanchez sat on the other horan’s chest. It bucked underneath him as he rained down punches. Mach’s opponent twisted off a metal chair leg and held the jagged part forward. “You won’t live to see your home world, human.” The metal doors flung open. Two dark blue uniformed CWDF soldiers entered, lasers raised, shifting their aim between Mach, Sanchez, and the two horans. Sanchez rolled free and held up his arms. Mach raised his too, and with a panting breath said, “We don’t want any trouble.” One of the soldiers, an unusually stocky fidesian, moved around to the back of Mach while keeping the laser pointed at his head. “You come to Summanus and start a bar fight, you’re gonna find it.” The soldier pulled a cuff block from his belt and stuffed Mach’s wrists through the gaps. The cuffs automatically tightened around his wrists. “Where are you taking me?” Mach said. “You can cool down in solitary for the night. I want you off the planet in the morning—when we’ve charged your account, of course.” The other soldier cuffed Sanchez. The two men were pushed out of the bar, back into the driving, freezing rain. Mach kept his head down as he was dragged into the blocky Summanus prison. He glanced at Sanchez and shared a minuscule nod of accomplishment.



